8.2.4. Level 4
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Level 4 is intended to provide the highest practical remote network authentication assurance. Level 4 authentication is based on proof of possession of a key through a cryptographic protocol. Level 4 is similar to Level 3 except that only “hard” cryptographic tokens are allowed, FIPS 140-2 cryptographic module validation requirements are strengthened, and subsequent critical data transfers must be authenticated via a key bound to the authentication process. The token shall be a hardware cryptographic module validated at FIPS 140-2 Level 2 or higher overall with at least FIPS 140-2 Level 3 physical security. By requiring a physical token, which cannot readily be copied and since FIPS 140-2 requires operator authentication at Level 2 and higher, this level ensures good, two factor remote authentication.
Level 4 requires strong cryptographic authentication of all parties and all sensitive data transfers between the parties. Either public key or symmetric key technology may be used. Authentication requires that the claimant shall prove through a secure authentication protocol that he or she controls the token. The protocol threats defined in section 8.1.1 above (eavesdropper, replay, on-line guessing, verifier impersonation and man-in-the-middle attacks) shall be prevented. In addition, the token shall protect the secret from compromise by the malicious code threat as described in section 8.1.3 above. Long-term shared authentication secrets, if used, shall never be revealed to any party except the claimant and CSP; however session (temporary) shared secrets may be provided to verifiers or relying parties by the CSP. Strong, Approved cryptographic techniques shall be used for all operations. All sensitive data transfers shall be cryptographically authenticated using keys derived in the authentication process.


8.2.4.1.Credential/Token Lifetime, Status or Revocation
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

CSPs shall provide a secure mechanism to allow verifiers or relying parties to ensure that the credentials are valid. Such mechanisms may include: revocation lists, on-line validation servers, and the use of credentials with short life-times or the involvement of CSP servers that have access to status records in authentication transactions. Shared secret based authentication systems may simply remove revoked subscribers from the verification database. Verifiers shall check to ensure that the credentials they use are either freshly issued or still valid.
CSPs shall have a procedure to revoke credentials within 24 hours. Verifiers or relying parties shall ensure that the credentials they rely upon are either freshly issued (within 24 hours) or still valid. The certificate status provisions of CAs cross-certified with the Federal Bridge CA at the High and Common Certificate Policies shall be considered to meet credential status provisions of Level 4. [FBCA1].

At this level sensitive data transfers shall be cryptographically authenticated using keys bound to the authentication process. All temporary or short-term keys derived during the original authentication operation shall expire and re-authentication shall be required after not more than 24 hours from the initial authentication.

8.2.4.2.Protection of Long-term Shared Secrets
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Files of long-term shared secrets used by CSPs or verifiers at Level 4 shall be protected in the same manner as long-term shared secrets for Level 3 (specified in section 8.2.3.3 above.)

8.2.4.3.Example Implementations
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Level 4 assurance can be satisfied by client authenticated TLS (implemented in all modern browsers), with claimants who have public key hard tokens. Other protocols with similar properties can also be used.
