1.  Introduction
========================================

WebFinger is used to discover information about people or other
entities on the Internet that are identified by a URI [6] using
standard Hypertext Transfer Protocol (HTTP) [2] methods over a secure
transport [12].  A WebFinger resource returns a JavaScript Object
Notation (JSON) [5] object describing the entity that is queried.
The JSON object is referred to as the JSON Resource Descriptor (JRD).

For a person, the type of information that might be discoverable via
WebFinger includes a personal profile address, identity service,
telephone number, or preferred avatar.  For other entities on the
Internet, a WebFinger resource might return JRDs containing link
relations [8] that enable a client to discover, for example, that a
printer can print in color on A4 paper, the physical location of a
server, or other static information.

Information returned via WebFinger might be for direct human
consumption (e.g., looking up someone's phone number), or it might be
used by systems to help carry out some operation (e.g., facilitating,
with additional security mechanisms, logging into a web site by
determining a user's identity service).  The information is intended
to be static in nature, and, as such, WebFinger is not intended to be
used to return dynamic information like the temperature of a CPU or
the current toner level in a laser printer.

The WebFinger protocol is designed to be used across many
applications.  Applications that wish to utilize WebFinger will need
to specify properties, titles, and link relation types that are
appropriate for the application.  Further, applications will need to
define the appropriate URI scheme to utilize for the query target.

Use of WebFinger is illustrated in the examples in Section 3 and
described more formally in Section 4.  Section 8 describes how
applications of WebFinger may be defined.

( http://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc7033#section-1 ) 

