10.4.2.  The Registration Procedures
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

The IETF has created a mailing list, webfinger@ietf.org, which can be
used for public discussion of the WebFinger protocol and any
applications that use it.  Prior to registration of a WebFinger
property, discussion on the mailing list is strongly encouraged.  The
IESG has appointed Designated Experts [13] who will monitor the
webfinger@ietf.org mailing list and review registrations.

A WebFinger property is registered with a Specification Required (see
RFC 5226 [13]) after a review by the Designated Experts.  The review
is normally expected to take on the order of two to four weeks.
However, the Designated Experts may approve a registration prior to
publication of a specification once the Designated Experts are
satisfied that such a specification will be published.  In evaluating
registration requests, the Designated Experts should make an effort
to avoid registering two different properties that have the same
meaning.  Where a proposed property is similar to an already-defined
property, the Designated Experts should insist that enough text be
included in the description or notes section of the template to
sufficiently differentiate the new property from an existing one.

The registration procedure begins with a completed registration
template (as defined above) sent to webfinger@ietf.org.  Once
consensus is reached on the mailing list, the registration template
is sent to iana@iana.org.  IANA will then contact the Designated
Experts and communicate the results to the registrant.  The WebFinger
mailing list provides an opportunity for community discussion and
input, and the Designated Experts may use that input to inform their
review.  Denials should include an explanation and, if applicable,
suggestions as to how to make the request successful if resubmitted.


The specification registering the WebFinger property MUST include the
completed registration template shown above.  Once the registration
procedure concludes successfully, IANA creates or modifies the
corresponding record in the "WebFinger Properties" registry.

( http://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc7033#section-10.4.2 )
