11. Security Considerations
=================================

All of the security considerations applicable to Web Host Metadata
[10] and Cross-Origin Resource Sharing [8] are also applicable to
this specification.  Of particular importance is the recommended use
of HTTPS to ensure that information is not modified during transit.
Clients should verify that the certificate used on an HTTPS
connection is valid.

When using HTTP to request an XRD document, WebFinger clients SHOULD
verify the XRD document's signature, if present, to ensure that the
XRD document has not been modified.  Additionally, WebFinger servers
SHOULD include a signature for XRD documents served over HTTP.

Service providers and users should be aware that placing information
on the Internet accessible through WebFinger means that any user can
access that information.  While WebFinger can be an extremely useful
tool for allowing quick and easy access to one's avatar, blog, or
other personal information, users should understand the risks, too.
If one does not wish to share certain information with the world, do
not allow that information to be freely accessible through WebFinger.

The aforementioned word of caution is perhaps worth emphasizing again
with respect to dynamic information one might wish to share, such as
the current location of a user.  WebFinger can be a powerful tool
used to assemble information about a person all in one place, but
service providers and users should be mindful of the nature of that
information shared and the fact that it might be available for the
entire world to see.  Sharing location information, for example,
would potentially put a person in danger from any individual who
might seek to inflict harm on that person.

The easy access to user information via WebFinger was a design goal
of the protocol, not a limitation.  If one wishes to limit access to
information available via WebFinger, such as a WebFinger server for
use inside a corporate network, the network administrator must take
measures necessary to limit access from outside the network.  Using
standard methods for securing web resources, network administrators
do have the ability to control access to resources that might return
sensitive information.  Further, WebFinger servers can be employed in
such a way as to require authentication and prevent disclosure of
information to unauthorized entities.

(Internet Draft 06)
