4.1.  Constructing the Query Component of the Request URI
---------------------------------------------------------------------

.. note::
    - リクエストURIのクエリコンポーネント

A WebFinger URI MUST contain a query component (see Section 3.4 of
RFC 3986).  The query component MUST contain a "resource" parameter
and MAY contain one or more "rel" parameters.  The "resource"
parameter MUST contain the query target (URI), and the "rel"
parameters MUST contain encoded link relation types according to the
encoding described in this section.

To construct the query component, the client performs the following
steps.  First, each parameter value is percent-encoded, as per
Section 2.1 of RFC 3986.  The encoding is done to conform to the
query production in Section 3.4 of that specification, with the
addition that any instances of the "=" and "&" characters within the
parameter values are also percent-encoded.  Next, the client
constructs a string to be placed in the query component by
concatenating the name of the first parameter together with an equal
sign ("=") and the percent-encoded parameter value.  For any
subsequent parameters, the client appends an ampersand ("&") to the
string, the name of the next parameter, an equal sign, and the
parameter value.  The client MUST NOT insert any spaces while
constructing the string.  The order in which the client places each
attribute-value pair within the query component does not matter in
the interpretation of the query component.

( http://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc7033#section-4.1 )
