4.2.  Performing a WebFinger Query
------------------------------------------------

.. note::
    WebFinger問い合わせ

A WebFinger client issues a query using the GET method to the well-
known [3] resource identified by the URI whose path component is
"/.well-known/webfinger" and whose query component MUST include the
"resource" parameter exactly once and set to the value of the URI for
which information is being sought.

If the "resource" parameter is absent or malformed, the WebFinger
resource MUST indicate that the request is bad as per Section 10.4.1
of RFC 2616 [2].

If the "resource" parameter is a value for which the server has no
information, the server MUST indicate that it was unable to match the
request as per Section 10.4.5 of RFC 2616.

A client MUST query the WebFinger resource using HTTPS only.  If the
client determines that the resource has an invalid certificate, the
resource returns a 4xx or 5xx status code, or if the HTTPS connection
cannot be established for any reason, then the client MUST accept
that the WebFinger query has failed and MUST NOT attempt to reissue
the WebFinger request using HTTP over a non-secure connection.

A WebFinger resource MUST return a JRD as the representation for the
resource if the client requests no other supported format explicitly
via the HTTP "Accept" header.  The client MAY include the "Accept"
header to indicate a desired representation; representations other
than JRD might be defined in future specifications.  The WebFinger
resource MUST silently ignore any requested representations that it
does not understand or support.  The media type used for the JSON
Resource Descriptor (JRD) is "application/jrd+json" (see Section
10.2).

The properties, titles, and link relation types returned by the
server in a JRD might be varied and numerous.  For example, the
server might return information about a person's blog, vCard [14],
avatar, OpenID Connect provider, RSS or ATOM feed, and so forth in a
reply.  Likewise, if a server has no information to provide, it might
return a JRD with an empty "links" array or no "links" array.

A WebFinger resource MAY redirect the client; if it does, the
redirection MUST only be to an "https" URI and the client MUST
perform certificate validation again when redirected.

A WebFinger resource can include cache validators in a response to
enable conditional requests by the client and/or expiration times as
per Section 13 of RFC 2616.

( http://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc7033#section-4.2 )
