4.  WebFinger Protocol
============================

The WebFinger protocol is used to request information about an entity
identified by a :term:`query target` (a URI).  
The client can optionally specify one or more :term:`link relation types` 
for which it would like to receive information.

A WebFinger request is an **HTTPS** request to a WebFinger resource.  
A WebFinger resource is a :term:`well-known URI` :term:`[3]` using the HTTPS scheme
constructed along with the required query target and optional link
relation types.  
WebFinger resources MUST NOT be served with any other URI scheme (such as HTTP).

.. note::
    HTTPS必須

A WebFinger resource is always given a query target, 
which is another URI that identifies the entity whose information is sought.  
GET requests to a WebFinger resource convey the query target in the
"resource" parameter of the WebFinger URI's query string; 
see :ref:`Section 4.1 <webfinger.4.1>` for details.

The host to which a WebFinger query is issued is significant.  If the
query target contains a "host" portion (Section 3.2.2 of RFC 3986),
then the host to which the WebFinger query is issued SHOULD be the
same as the "host" portion of the query target, unless the client
receives instructions through some out-of-band mechanism to send the
query to another host.  If the query target does not contain a "host"
portion, then the client chooses a host to which it directs the query
using additional information it has.

The path component of a WebFinger URI MUST be the well-known path
"/.well-known/webfinger".  A WebFinger URI MUST contain a query
component that encodes the query target and optional link relation
types as specified in Section 4.1.

The WebFinger resource returns a JSON Resource Descriptor (JRD) as
the resource representation to convey information about an entity on
the Internet.  Also, the Cross-Origin Resource Sharing (CORS) [7]
specification is utilized to facilitate queries made via a web
browser.

( http://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc7033#section-4 )
