5.4. WebFinger and URIs
------------------------------------

Requests for both LRDD documents and hostmeta files can include a parameter 
specifying the URI of an account, device, or other entity 
(for LRDD this is the "uri" parameter as defined by the operative XRD or JRD template, 
for hostmeta this is the "resource" parameter).

WebFinger itself is agnostic regarding the scheme of such a URI: 
it could be an "**acct**" URI as defined in the next section, 
an "http" or "https" URI, a "mailto" URI, or some other scheme.

For resources associated with a user account at a domain, 
use of the "**acct**" URI scheme is RECOMMENDED, 
since it explicitly identifies an account accessible via WebFinger.  

Further, the "**acct**" URI scheme is not associated other protocols as, 
by way of example, the "mailto" URI scheme is associated with email.  
Since not every domain offers email service, 
using the "mailto" URI scheme is not ideal for identifying user accounts across all domains.  
That said, use of the "mailto" URI scheme would be ideal 
for use with WebFinger to discover mail server configuration information for a user, 
for example.

A domain MAY utilize one or more URIs that serve as aliases for the user's account, 
such as URIs that use the "http" URI scheme.  
A WebFinger server MUST return substantially the same response to both an "acct" URI 
and any alias URI for the account, including the same set of link relations and properties.  
In addition, the server SHOULD include the entire list aliases for the user's account in the XRD or JRD.

(Internet Draft 06)

