7.  Hosted WebFinger Services
============================================

As with most services provided on the Internet, it is possible for a
domain owner to utilize "hosted" WebFinger services.  By way of
example, a domain owner might control most aspects of their domain
but use a third-party hosting service for email.  In the case of
email, mail exchange (MX) records identify mail servers for a domain.
An MX record points to the mail server to which mail for the domain
should be delivered.  To the sending server, it does not matter
whether those MX records point to a server in the destination domain
or a different domain.

Likewise, a domain owner might utilize the services of a third party
to provide WebFinger services on behalf of its users.  Just as a
domain owner is required to insert MX records into DNS to allow for
hosted email services, the domain owner is required to redirect HTTP
queries to its domain to allow for hosted WebFinger services.

When a query is issued to the WebFinger resource, the web server MUST
return a response with a redirection status code that includes a
Location header pointing to the location of the hosted WebFinger
service URI.  This WebFinger service URI does not need to point to
the well-known WebFinger location on the hosting service provider
server.

As an example, assume that example.com's WebFinger services are
hosted by wf.example.net.  Suppose a client issues a query for
acct:alice@example.com like this:

::


     GET /.well-known/webfinger?
                   resource=acct%3Aalice%40example.com HTTP/1.1
     Host: example.com

The server might respond with this:

::

     HTTP/1.1 307 Temporary Redirect
     Access-Control-Allow-Origin: *
     Location: https://wf.example.net/example.com/webfinger?
                   resource=acct%3Aalice%40example.com

The client can then follow the redirection, reissuing the request to
the URI provided in the Location header.  Note that the server will
include any required URI parameters in the Location header value,
which could be different than the URI parameters the client
originally used.

( http://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc7033#section-7 )

