9.2.  User Privacy Considerations
----------------------------------------

Service providers and users should be aware that placing information
on the Internet means that any user can access that information, and
WebFinger can be used to make it even easier to discover that
information.  While WebFinger can be an extremely useful tool for
discovering one's avatar, blog, or other personal data, users should
also understand the risks.

Systems or services that expose personal data via WebFinger MUST
provide an interface by which users can select which data elements
are exposed through the WebFinger interface.  For example, social
networking sites might allow users to mark certain data as "public"
and then utilize that marking as a means of determining what
information to expose via WebFinger.  The information published via
WebFinger would thus comprise only the information marked as public
by the user.  Further, the user has the ability to remove information
from publication via WebFinger by removing this marking.

WebFinger MUST NOT be used to provide any personal data unless
publishing that data via WebFinger by the relevant service was
explicitly authorized by the person whose information is being
shared.  Publishing one's personal data within an access-controlled
or otherwise limited environment on the Internet does not equate to
providing implicit authorization of further publication of that data
via WebFinger.

The privacy and security concerns with publishing personal data via
WebFinger are worth emphasizing again with respect to personal data
that might reveal a user's current context (e.g., the user's
location).  The power of WebFinger comes from providing a single
place where others can find pointers to information about a person,
but service providers and users should be mindful of the nature of
that information shared and the fact that it might be available for
the entire world to see.  Sharing location information, for example,
would potentially put a person in danger from any individual who
might seek to inflict harm on that person.

Users should be aware of how easily personal data that one might
publish can be used in unintended ways.  In one study relevant to
WebFinger-like services, Balduzzi et al. [20] took a large set of
leaked email addresses and demonstrated a number of potential privacy
concerns, including the ability to cross-correlate the same user's
accounts over multiple social networks.  The authors also describe
potential mitigation strategies.

The easy access to user information via WebFinger was a design goal
of the protocol, not a limitation.  If one wishes to limit access to
information available via WebFinger, such as WebFinger resources for
use inside a corporate network, the network administrator needs to
take necessary measures to limit access from outside the network.
Using standard methods for securing web resources, network
administrators do have the ability to control access to resources
that might return sensitive information.  Further, a server can be
employed in such a way as to require authentication and prevent
disclosure of information to unauthorized entities.

( http://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc7033#section-9.2 )
