9.3.  Abuse Potential
--------------------------------

Service providers should be mindful of the potential for abuse using
WebFinger.

As one example, one might query a WebFinger server only to discover
whether or not a given URI is valid.  With such a query, the person
may deduce that an email identifier is valid, for example.  Such an
approach could help spammers maintain a current list of known email
addresses and to discover new ones.

WebFinger could be used to associate a name or other personal data
with an email address, allowing spammers to craft more convincing
email messages.  This might be of particular value in phishing
attempts.

It is RECOMMENDED that implementers of WebFinger server software take
steps to mitigate abuse, including malicious over-use of the server
and harvesting of user information.  Although there is no mechanism
that can guarantee that publicly accessible WebFinger databases won't
be harvested, rate-limiting by IP address will prevent or at least
dramatically slow harvest by private individuals without access to
botnets or other distributed systems.  The reason these mitigation
strategies are not mandatory is that the correct choice of mitigation
strategy (if any) depends greatly on the context.  Implementers
should not construe this as meaning that they do not need to consider
whether to use a mitigation strategy, and if so, what strategy to
use.

WebFinger client developers should also be aware of potential abuse
by spammers or those phishing for information about users.  As an
example, suppose a mail client was configured to automatically
perform a WebFinger query on the sender of each received mail
message.  If a spammer sent an email using a unique identifier in the
'From' header, then when the WebFinger query was performed, the
spammer would be able to associate the request with a particular
user's email address.  This would provide information to the spammer,
including the user's IP address, the fact the user just checked
email, what kind of WebFinger client the user utilized, and so on.
For this reason, it is strongly advised that clients not perform
WebFinger queries unless authorized by the user to do so.

( http://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc7033#section-9.3 )
