9. Controlling Access to Information
=============================================

As with all web resources, access to the Host Metadata resource and
the LRDD resource MAY require authentication.  Further, failure to
provide required credentials MAY result in the server forbidding
access or providing a different response than had the client
authenticated with the server.

Likewise, a server MAY provide different responses to different
clients based on other factors, such as whether the client is inside
or outside a corporate network.  As a concrete example, a query
performed on the internal corporate network might return link
relations to employee pictures whereas link relations for employee
pictures might not be provided to external entities.

Further, link relations provided in a WebFinger server response MAY
point to web resources that impose access restrictions.  For example,
it is possible that the aforementioned corporate server may provide
both internal and external entities with URIs to employee pictures,
but further authentication MAY be required in order for the WebFinger
client to access those resources if the request comes from outside
the corporate network.

The decisions made with respect to what set of link relations a
WebFinger server provides to one client versus another and what
resources require further authentication, as well as the specific
authentication mechanisms employed, are outside the scope of this
document.

(Internet Draft 06)
