5.2.  Claims Languages and Scripts
---------------------------------------------------------------

Human-readable Claim Values 
and Claim Values that reference human-readable values 
MAY be represented in multiple languages and scripts. 

To specify the languages and scripts, 
BCP47 [RFC5646] language tags are added to member names, 
delimited by a # character. 

For example, 
family_name#ja-Kana-JP expresses the Family Name in Katakana in Japanese, 
which is commonly used to index 
and represent the phonetics of the Kanji representation 
of the same represented as family_name#ja-Hani-JP. 

As another example, 
both website and website#de Claim Values might be returned, 
referencing a Web site in an unspecified language and a Web site in German.

Since Claim Names are case sensitive, 
it is strongly RECOMMENDED that language tag values used 
in Claim Names be spelled using the character case with 
which they are registered in the IANA Language Subtag Registry [IANA.Language]. 
In particular, 
normally language names are spelled with lowercase characters, 
region names are spelled with uppercase characters, 
and scripts are spelled with mixed case characters. 
However, 
since BCP47 language tag values are case insensitive, 
implementations SHOULD interpret the language tag values supplied in a case insensitive manner.

Per the recommendations in BCP47, 
language tag values for Claims SHOULD only be as specific as necessary. 
For instance, 
using fr might be sufficient in many contexts, 
rather than fr-CA or fr-FR. 
Where possible, 
OPs SHOULD try to match requested Claim locales with Claims it has. 
For instance, 
if the Client asks for a Claim with a de (German) language tag 
and the OP has a value tagged with de-CH (Swiss German) 
and no generic German value, 
it would be appropriate for the OP to return the Swiss German value to the Client. 
(This intentionally moves as much of 
the complexity of language tag matching to the OP as possible, to simplify Clients.)

OpenID Connect defines the following Authorization Request parameter 
to enable specify the preferred languages 
and scripts to be used for the returned Claims:

.. glossary::

    claims_locales
        OPTIONAL. 

        End-User's preferred languages and scripts for Claims being returned, 
        represented as a space-separated list of BCP47 [RFC5646] language tag values, 
        ordered by preference. 

        An error SHOULD NOT result if some or all   
        of the requested locales are not supported by the OpenID Provider.

When the OP determines, either through the claims_locales parameter, 
or by other means, 
that the End-User and Client are requesting Claims in only one set of languages and scripts, 
it is RECOMMENDED that OPs return Claims without language tags 
when they employ this language and script. 

It is also RECOMMENDED that Clients be written in a manner 
that they can handle and utilize Claims using language tags.


(draft17)

