5.4.  Requesting Claims using Scope Values
------------------------------------------------

OpenID Connect Clients use scope values, 
as defined in Section 3.3 of OAuth 2.0 [RFC6749], 
to specify what access privileges are being requested for Access Tokens. 

The scopes associated with Access Tokens determine 
what resources will be available 
when they are used to access OAuth 2.0 protected endpoints. 
Protected Resource endpoints MAY perform different actions 
and return different information based on the scope values 
and other parameters used when requesting the presented Access Token.

For OpenID Connect, 
scopes can be used to request that specific sets of information be made available as Claim Values.

Claims requested by the following scopes 
are treated by Authorization Servers as Voluntary Claims.

OpenID Connect defines the following scope values that are used to request Claims:

.. glossary::

    profile
        OPTIONAL. 

        This scope value requests access to the End-User's default profile Claims, 
        which are: 
    
            name, family_name, given_name, middle_name, nickname, 
            preferred_username, profile, picture, website, gender, 
            birthdate, zoneinfo, locale, and updated_at.

    email
        OPTIONAL. 

        This scope value requests access 
        to the :term:`email` and :term:`email_verified` Claims.

    address
        OPTIONAL. 

        This scope value requests access to the :term:`address` Claim.

    phone
        OPTIONAL. 

        This scope value requests access to the :term:`phone_number` and :term:`phone_number_verified` Claims.

Multiple scope values MAY be used by creating a space delimited, case sensitive list of ASCII scope values.

The Claims requested by the profile, email, address, 
and phone scope values are returned from the UserInfo Endpoint, 
as described in Section 5.3.2, 
when a response_type value is used that results in an Access Token being issued. 

However, 
when no Access Token is issued 
(which is the case for the :term:`response_type` value :term:`id_token`), 
the resulting Claims are returned in the ID Token.

In some cases, 
the End-User will be given the option to have the OpenID Provider decline 
to provide some or all information requested by RPs. 
To minimize the amount of information that 
the End-User is being asked to disclose, 
an RP can elect to only request a subset of the information available 
from the UserInfo Endpoint.

The following is a non-normative example 
of an unencoded scope request:

::

  scope=openid profile email phone

(draft17)
