2. Scope and Purpose
============================

This Recommendation provides the specifications of key establishment schemes that are appropriate for use by the U.S. Federal Government, based on standards developed by the Accredited Standards Committee (ASC) X9, Inc.: ANS X9.42 Agreement of Symmetric Keys using Discrete Logarithm Cryptography and ANS X9.63 Key Agreement and Key Transport using Elliptic Curve Cryptography. A key establishment scheme can be characterized as either a key agreement scheme or a key transport scheme. The asymmetric-key-based key agreement schemes in this Recommendation are based on the Diffie-Hellman (DH) and Menezes-Qu- Vanstone (MQV) algorithms. In addition, an asymmetric-key-based key transport scheme is specified. It is intended that an adjunct key establishment schemes Recommendation will contain key transport scheme(s) from ANS X9.44 Key Agreement and Key Transport using Factoring- Based Cryptography, when they become available.
This Recommendation provides a description of selected schemes from ANS X9 standards. When there are differences between this Recommendation and the referenced ANS X9 standards, this key establishment schemes Recommendation shall have precedence for U.S. Government applications.
This Recommendation is intended for use in conjunction with NIST Special Publication 800-57, Recommendation for Key Management [7]. This key establishment schemes Recommendation, the Recommendation for Key Management [7], and the referenced ANS X9 standards are intended to provide sufficient information for a vendor to implement secure key establishment using asymmetric algorithms in FIPS 140-2 [1] validated modules.
A scheme may be a component of a protocol, which in turn provides additional security properties not provided by the scheme when considered by itself. Note that protocols, per se, are not specified in this Recommendation.
