4.1 Key Agreement Preparations by an Owner
----------------------------------------------------

.. note::
    - キーオーナーの準備

        1. :ref:`ドメインパラメータを選ぶ <nist-sp800-56a.5.5.1>`
        2. :ref:`ドメインパラメータの検証 <nist-sp800-56a.5.5.2>`
        3. キーペアの取得

            - :ref:`キーペアの生成 <nist-sp800-56a.5.6.1>`
            - :ref:`信頼できる相手から生成してもらう <nist-sp800-56a.5.6.1>` 

        4. キーペアの検証

            - :ref:`ただしパブリックキーか? <nist-sp800-56a.5.6.2.1>`
            - :ref:`プライベートキーの正式な所持者か？ <nist-sp800-56a.5.6.3.1>`.
     
The owner of a private/public key pair is the entity 
that is authorized to use the private key of that key pair. 

Figure 1 depicts the steps 
that may be required of that entity when preparing for a key agreement process.

The first step is to obtain appropriate :term:`domain parameters` 
that are generated as specified in :ref:`Section 5.5.1 <nist-sp800-56a.5.5.1>`; 
either the entity itself generates the domain parameters, 
or the entity obtains domain parameters that another entity has generated. 

Having obtained the domain parameters, 
the entity obtains assurance of the validity of those domain parameters; 
approved methods for obtaining this assurance are provided in Section :ref:`5.5.2 <nist-sp800-56a.5.5.2>`.

If the entity will be using a key establishment scheme 
that requires that the entity have a :term:`static key pair`, 
the entity obtains this key pair. 

Either the entity generates the key pair 
as specified in :ref:`Section 5.6.1 <nist-sp800-56a.5.6.1>` 
or a trusted party generates the key pair 
as specified in :ref:`Section 5.6.1 <nist-sp800-56a.5.6.1>` 
and provides it to the entity. 

.. note::
    Assuranceについて


The :term:`entity` (i.e., the :term:`owner`) obtains 
assurance of the validity of its static public key and 
also obtains assurance 
that it actually possesses the (correct) static private key. 


Approved methods for obtaining assurance of public key validity 
by the owner are addressed in :ref:`Section 5.6.2.1 <nist-sp800-56a.5.6.2.1>`; 
approved methods for an owner to obtain 
assurance of the actual possession of the private key 
are provided in :ref:`Section 5.6.3.1 <nist-sp800-56a.5.6.3.1>`.

.. note::
    - 識別子 

An :term:`identifier` (see :ref:`Section 3.1 <nist-sp800-56a.3.1>`) 
is used to label the :term:`entity` that is authorized 
to use the :term:`static private key` 
corresponding to a particular :term:`static public key` 
(i.e., the identifier labels the key pair’s owner). 

This label may uniquely distinguish the entity from all others, 
in which case it could rightfully be considered an identity. 

However, 
the label may be something less specific – 
an organization, nickname, etc. – hence, 
the term identifier is used in this Recommendation, 
rather than the term identity. 

A key pair’s owner is responsible for ensuring that the identifier 
associated with its static public key is appropriate 
for the applications in which it will be used.

