4. Key Establishment Schemes Overview
================================================

Secret cryptographic keying material may be electronically established 
between parties by using a key establishment scheme, 
that is, 
by using either a :term:`key agreement` scheme or a :term:`key transport` scheme.

During :term:`key agreement` 
(where both parties contribute to the :term:`shared secret` and, therefore, 
the derived :term:`secret keying material`), 
the secret keying material to be established is not sent directly; 
rather, 
information is exchanged between both parties that 
allows each party to **derive** the secret keying material. 


Key agreement schemes may use either symmetric key 
or asymmetric key (public key) techniques. 

The key agreement schemes described 
in this Recommendation use public key techniques. 

The party that begins a key agreement scheme is called the :term:`initiator`, 
and the other party is called the :term:`responder`.

During :term:`key transport` 
(where one party selects the secret keying material), 
**wrapped** (that is, **encrypted**) secret keying material is transported 
from the sender to the receiver. 

Key transport schemes may use either symmetric key or public key techniques; 
only key transport schemes based on :term:`Discrete Logarithm Cryptography` (DLC) cryptography 
are described in this Recommendation. 

The party that sends the secret keying material is called the :term:`sender`, 
and the other party is called the :term:`receiver`.

The security of the DLC schemes in this Recommendation 
is based on the intractability of the discrete logarithm problem. 

The schemes calculated over a finite field (FF) are based on ANS X9.42. 

The schemes calculated using elliptic curves (EC) are based on ANS X9.63.
