5.6.2.3 RecipientAssurancesofEphemeralPublicKeyValidity
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The recipient of an ephemeral public key shall obtain assurance of its validity in one or more of the following ways:

1. Recipient Full Validation - The recipient performs a successful full public key validation (see Sections 5.6.2.4 and 5.6.2.5).
2. TTP Full Validation – The recipient receives assurance that a trusted third party (trusted by the recipient) has performed a successful full public key validation (see Sections 5.6.2.4 and 5.6.2.5). For example, a trusted processor may only forward an ephemeral public key to the recipient if the public key passes a full public key validation.
3. Recipient ECC Partial Validation - If using an ECC method (only), the recipient performs a successful partial public key validation (see Section 5.6.2.6).
4. TTP ECC Partial Validation – If using an ECC method (only), the recipient receives assurance that a trusted third party (trusted by the recipient) has performed a successful partial public key validation (see Section 5.6.2.6). For example, a trusted processor may only forward an ECC ephemeral public key to the recipient if it passes a partial public key validation.

The application performing the key establishment on behalf of the recipient should determine whether or not to allow key establishment based upon the method(s) of assurance that was used. Such knowledge may be explicitly provided to the application in some manner, or may be implicitly provided by the operation of the application itself.


