5.6.3.2.2 Recipient Obtains Assurance Directly from the Claimed Owner
######################################################################

When two parties engage in a key agreement transaction, there is (at least) an implicit claim of ownership made whenever a static public key is provided on behalf of a particular party. That party is considered to be a claimed owner of the corresponding static key pair – as opposed to being a true owner – until adequate assurance can be provided that the party is actually the one authorized to use the static private key.
The recipient of a static public key can directly obtain assurance of the claimed owner’s current possession of the corresponding private key by successfully completing a key agreement transaction that explicitly incorporates key confirmation, with the claimed owner serving as the key confirmation provider (see Section 8). Note that the recipient of the static public key in question is also the key confirmation recipient. When assurance of possession is obtained
through key confirmation performed in compliance with this Recommendation, the underlying key agreement scheme used shall be one of the following, and the recipient seeking assurance shall serve as the key agreement initiator:
• dhHybridOneFlow or (Cofactor) One-Pass Unified Model,
• MQV1 or One-Pass MQV,
• dhOneFlow or (Cofactor) One-Pass Diffie-Hellman.
(See Sections 6 and 8 for details.) The recipient of a static public key (or agents trusted to act on the recipient’s behalf) shall determine that the key agreement scheme employed to obtain assurance of possession in this manner is sufficient and appropriate to meet the security requirements of the recipient’s intended application(s).
In each of the permitted scenarios, the key confirmation recipient contributes (at least) an ephemeral public key that must be arithmetically combined with the static private key claimed by the key confirmation provider during the provider's computation of the shared secret. Successful key confirmation (performed in the context described here) demonstrates that the correct static private key has been used in the key confirmation provider’s calculations, and thus also provides assurance that the claimed owner is the true owner (see Section 8.1).
Key confirmation may be requested by the recipient even when the recipient has obtained independent assurance that the claimed owner of a static public key is indeed its true owner. This is appropriate in situations where the recipient desires assurance that the owner is currently in possession of the correct static private key (and that the owner is currently able to use it correctly), or in situations where there is no access to a trusted party who can provide assurance of the owner’s (previous) demonstration of private key possession.
Note that the recommendation that assurance of possession be obtained before using derived keying material for purposes beyond those of the key agreement transaction itself does not prohibit the parties to a key agreement transaction from using derived keying material during the transaction, for purposes required by the key agreement scheme. For example, in a transaction involving a key agreement scheme that incorporates key confirmation, the parties establish a (purportedly) shared secret, derive keying material, and — as part of that same transaction — use a portion of the derived keying material as the MacKey in their key confirmation computations.

