5.6.2 Assurances of the Arithmetic Validity of a Public Key
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Secure key establishment depends on the arithmetic validity of the public key. To explain the assurance requirements, some terminology needs to be defined. The owner of a static key pair is defined as the entity that is authorized to use the private key that corresponds to the public key; this is independent of whether or not the owner generated the key pair. The recipient of a static public key is defined as the entity that is participating in a key establishment transaction with the owner and obtains the key before or during the current transaction. The owner of an ephemeral public key is the entity that generated the key as part of a key establishment transaction. The recipient of an ephemeral public key is the entity that receives the key during a key establishment transaction with the owner.
Both the owner and a recipient of a candidate public key shall have assurance of its arithmetic validity before using it, as specified below. The application performing the key establishment on behalf of the owner and recipient should determine whether or not to allow key establishment based upon the method(s) of assurance that was used. Such knowledge may be explicitly provided to the application in some manner, or may be implicitly provided by the operation of the application itself. Prior to obtaining this assurance of arithmetic validity, the owner and recipient of the public key shall have assurance of the validity of the domain parameters. The procedures presented for obtaining public key validity assume that the domain parameters have been validated.

