5.6.3.1 OwnerAssurancesofPossessionofaStaticPrivateKey
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The owner of a static public key shall have assurance that the owner actually possesses the correct associated private key in one or more of the following ways:

1. Owner Receives Assurance via Explicit Key Confirmation – The owner employs the static key pair to successfully engage another party in a key agreement transaction incorporating explicit key confirmation. The key confirmation shall be performed with the owner as key confirmation recipient in order to obtain assurance that the private key functions correctly. See Section 8 for further explanation.
2. Owner Receives Assurance via Use of an Encrypted Certificate - The owner uses the static private key while engaging in a key agreement transaction with a Certificate Authority (trusted by the owner), providing the CA with the corresponding static public key. As part of this transaction, the CA generates a certificate containing the owner’s static public key and encrypts the certificate using a symmetric key derived from the shared secret they have (allegedly) established. Only the encrypted form of the certificate is provided to the owner. By successfully decrypting the certificate, the owner obtains assurance of possession of the correct private key (at the time of the key agreement transaction).
3. Owner Receives Assurance via Key Regeneration – The owner regenerates a public key from the static private key and verifies that the regenerated public key is equal to the original static public key. Note that this method may be useful if the static private key has been generated by a party other than the owner or as an integrity check on a key pair that has been stored for a long period of time.
4. Owner Receives Assurance via Trusted Provision - A trusted party (trusted by the owner) provides the static private key and static public key to the owner using a trusted distribution method. Reliance upon this method assumes (1) that the trusted party will provide a private key that is consistent with the public key and (2) that the trusted party will not use the private key to masquerade as the owner.
5. Owner Receives Assurance via Key Generation - The act of generating a key pair, with the public key being computed from the private key, is a way for the owner to obtain assurance of possession of the correct private key. This method allows an owner who
protects his/her own keys to have assurance of possession without additional computation. Note that this method may not detect algorithm implementation errors, hardware errors, random bit flips, etc. Further assurance may be obtained through the use of one or more of the above methods.
The owner of a static public key (or agents trusted to act on the owner’s behalf) should determine that the method used for obtaining assurance of the owner’s possession of the correct static private key is sufficient and appropriate to meet the security requirements of the owner’s intended application(s).

