2.4.  Scope Values
---------------------

OpenID Connect Clients use scope values as defined in :ref:`3.3 of OAuth 2.0 <oauth.3.3>` :term:`[RFC6749]` 
to specify what access privileges are being requested for Access Tokens. 

The scopes associated with Access Tokens determine 
what resources will be available 
when they are used to access OAuth 2.0 protected endpoints. 

For OpenID Connect, 
scopes can be used to request that specific sets of information be made available as Claim Values. 
This specification describes only the scope values used by OpenID Connect.

OpenID Connect allows additional scope values to be defined and used. 
Scope values used that are not understood by an implementation SHOULD be ignored.

Claims requested by the following scopes are treated by Authorization Servers as :term:`Voluntary Claims`.

OpenID Connect defines the following scope values:

.. glossary::

    openid
        REQUIRED. 

        Informs the Authorization Server that the Client is making an OpenID Connect request. 
        If the openid scope value is not present, the behavior is entirely unspecified.

    profile
        OPTIONAL. 
        This scope value requests access to the End-User's default profile Claims, 
        which are: name, family_name, given_name, middle_name, nickname, preferred_username, profile, picture, website, gender, birthdate, zoneinfo, locale, and updated_at.

    email
        OPTIONAL. This scope value requests access to the email and email_verified Claims.

    address
        OPTIONAL. This scope value requests access to the address Claim.

    phone
        OPTIONAL. This scope value requests access to the phone_number and phone_number_verified Claims.

    offline_access
        OPTIONAL. This scope value requests that an OAuth 2.0 Refresh Token be issued that can be used to obtain an Access Token that grants access to the End-User's UserInfo Endpoint even when the user is not present (not logged in).

Multiple scope values MAY be used by creating a **space delimited**, **case sensitive** list of ASCII scope values.

The Claims requested by the profile, email, address, and phone scope values are returned 
from the UserInfo Endpoint, as described in :ref:`Section 2.3.2 <messages.2.3.2>`, 
when a :term:`response_type` value is used that results in an :term:`Access Token` 
being issued. 

However, 
when the :term:`response_type` value used is :term:`id_token` 
(which issues no Access Token), 
the resulting Claims are returned in the ID Token.

.. note::
    response_type = id_token  だったら、クレームは ID Tokenに入れる。
    なぜならば、access token を返さないから。

In some cases, 
the End-User will be given the option to have the OpenID Provider decline to provide some 
or all information requested by Clients. 

To minimize the amount of information that the user is being asked to disclose, 
a Client may elect to only request a subset of the information available from the UserInfo Endpoint.

The following is a non-normative example of a scope Request.

::

  scope=openid profile email phone


( draft 18 )
