2.6.  Claims Request
----------------------------------------

The claims parameter requests that specific Claims be returned from the UserInfo Endpoint and/or in the ID Token. It is represented as a JSON object containing lists of Claims being requested from these locations. Properties of the Claims being requested may also be specified.

Support for the claims parameter is OPTIONAL. Should an OP not support this parameter and an RP uses it, the OP SHOULD return a set of Claims to the RP that it believes would be useful to the RP and the End-User using whatever heuristics it believes are appropriate. The claims_parameter_supported Discovery result indicates whether the OP supports this parameter.

The claims parameter value is represented in an OAuth 2.0 request as UTF-8 encoded JSON (which ends up being form-urlencoded when passed as an OAuth parameter). When used in a Request Object value, per Section 2.9, the JSON is used as the value of the claims member.

The top-level members of the Claims request JSON object are:

.. glossary::

    userinfo
        OPTIONAL. 

        Requests that the listed individual Claims be returned from the UserInfo Endpoint. 

        If present, 
        the listed Claims are being requested to be added to any Claims that may have also been requested using scope values. 
    
        If not present, 
        the Claims being requested from the UserInfo Endpoint are only those requested using scope values.

        When the userinfo member is used, 
        the request MUST also use a response_type value that results in an Access Token being 
        issued to use at the UserInfo Endpoint.

    id_token
        OPTIONAL. 

        Requests that the listed individual Claims be returned in the ID Token. 

        If present, 
        the listed Claims are being requested to be added to the default Claims in the ID Token. 

        If not present, 
        the default ID Token Claims are requested.

        Other members MAY be present. Any members used that are not understood MUST be ignored.

An example Claims request is as follows:

.. code-block:: javascript

  {
   "userinfo":
    {
     "given_name": {"essential": true},
     "nickname": null,
     "email": {"essential": true},
     "email_verified": {"essential": true},
     "picture": null,
     "http://example.info/claims/groups": null
    },
   "id_token":
    {
     "auth_time": {"essential": true},
     "acr": {"values": ["urn:mace:incommon:iap:silver"] }
    }
  }

Note that a Claim that is not in the standard set defined in Section 2.5, the (example) http://example.info/claims/groups Claim, 
is being requested. 
Using the claims parameter is the only way to request Claims outside the standard set. 
It is also the only way to request specific combinations of the standard Claims that cannot be specified using scope values. 
