2.1.1.1.3.  "claims" member with "userinfo" and "id_token" members
#####################################################################

The claims member is a JSON object with a member for each requested Claim. 
The member names are the requested Claim names. Each Claim MAY either be an essential claim or voluntary claim. The default is voluntary.

By requesting Claims as essential, the client indicates to the user that releasing these claims will ensure a smooth authorization for the specific task requested by the user. Note that even if the claims are not available because the user did not authorize their release or they are not present, the Authorization Server MUST NOT generate an error when essential claims are not returned.

The Client may request additional Claims on voluntary basis that it requires to perform other tasks offered to the user.

The member values MAY be either:

.. glossary::

    null
        This indicates that this Claim is being requested in the default manner. In particular, this is a voluntary Claim. 

    A JSON Object
        This is used to provide additional information about the Claim being requested. This specification defines the following member: 

        .. glossary::
 
            essential
                OPTIONAL. 
                If the value is set to true, this indicates that the claim being requested is an essential claim. 
                If the value is set to false, it indicates that it is a voluntary claim. The default is false. 

        Other members MAY be defined to provide additional information about the requested Claim. 

The Claims MAY be represented in multiple languages and scripts. To specify languages and scripts for the Claim request, BCP47 [RFC5646] language tags delimited by a "#" MUST be added to each requested Claim Name for which a particular language and script is requested. For example, the Claim family_name#ja-Kana-JP is used for expressing Family Name in Katakana in Japanese, which is commonly used to index and represent the phonetics of the Kanji representation of the same value represented as family_name#ja-Hani-JP.

All members of the claims object are OPTIONAL.


(draft 13)
