2.1.2.1.2.  "id_token" member
####################################

The structure and function of the :term:`id_token` (ID Token request) member of 
the :term:`OpenID Request Object` is similar to that of the :term:`userinfo` member. 
It MAY include the OPTIONAL :term:`claims` and :term:`preferred_locales` members. 
The structure of these members is the same as that for the :term:`userinfo` member. 
If the :term:`claims` member is present in the :term:`id_token` object, 
the Claims requested within it modify the Claim set that would otherwise be returned in the :term:`ID Token`. 
Unlike for the :term:`userinfo` member, 
typically these Claims will augment, rather than override the default set.

Following Claims 
in addition to the claims described in "claims" member
in ":term:`userinfo`" and ":term:`id_token`" section., 
MAY be requested in the :term:`ID Token` by specifying it in the :term:`claims` member:

.. glossary::

    user_id
        OPTIONAL. 
        (User Identifier): 
        The :term:`User Identifier` for which an :term:`ID Token` is being requested. 
        If the specified user is not currently authenticated to the :term:`Authorization Server`, 
        they may be prompted for authenticated, 
        unless the prompt parameter in the :term:`Authorization Request` is set to :term:`none`. 

        The Claim Value in the request is an object containing the single element value.

        ::

            "user_id": {"value":"248289761001"}

    auth_time
        OPTIONAL. 
        (authenticated at): 
        Requests that the :term:`auth_time` Claim be present in the "id_token" response. 
        The Claim Value in the request is null. 

    acr
        OPTIONAL. 
        (:term:`Authentication Context Class Reference`): 
        Requests the desired :term:`Authentication Context Class References`. 
        The element values is an **ordered array** of strings 
        representing acceptable :term:`Authentication Context Class Reference` values 
        appearing in order of preference.

        ::

            "acr": {"values":["2","http://id.incommon.org/assurance/bronze"]}

In addition to the claims member, these additional members are defined within the id_token member of the OpenID Request Object:

.. glossary::

    max_age
        OPTIONAL. 
        (max authentication age): 
        Specifies that the :term:`End-User` must be actively authenticated 
        if any present authentication is older than 
        the specified number of seconds. 
            
        (The max_age request parameter corresponds to the OpenID 2.0 PAPE :term:`max_auth_age` request parameter.) 

It is anticipated that additional :term:`id_token` parameters MAY be defined 
to request that additional properties hold for the authentication - for instance, 
that certain authentication policies be applied 
(in the same spirit of the OpenID 2.0 PAPE auth_policies values), 
or that the authentication conform to the policies defined by a specified trust framework. 
These parameters MAY be defined by extension specifications.

All members of the :term:`id_token` object are OPTIONAL. 
Other members MAY be present and if so, SHOULD be understood by both parties.


(draft 10)
