2.1.1.1.2.  "id_token" member
##################################################################

The structure and function of the id_token (ID Token request) member 
of the OpenID Request Object is similar to that of the userinfo member. 
It MAY include the OPTIONAL claims and preferred_locales members. 

The structure of these members is the same as that for the userinfo member. 
If the claims member is present in the id_token object, 
the Claims requested within it augment the Claim set that would otherwise be returned in the ID Token.

Following Claims, 
in addition to the claims described in "claims" member 
in "userinfo" and "id_token" section., 
MAY be requested in the ID Token by specifying it in the claims member:

.. glossary::

    user_id
        OPTIONAL. 

        (User Identifier): 
        The User Identifier for which an ID Token is being requested. 
        If the specified user is not currently authenticated to the Authorization Server, 
        they may be prompted for authenticated, 
        unless the :term:`prompt` parameter in the Authorization Request is set to :term:`none`. 
        The Claim Value in the request is an object containing the single element value.

        .. code-block:: javascript

            "user_id": {"value":"248289761001"}

    auth_time
        OPTIONAL. 

        (authenticated at): 
        Requests that the :term:`auth_time` Claim be present in the ID Token response. 
        The Claim Value in the request must be {"essential": true} 
        to require auth_time in the response. 

        If the Claim Value in the request is null the has the option 
        of not including the claim in the response. 

    acr
        OPTIONAL. 

        (:term:`Authentication Context Class Reference`): 
        Requests the desired Authentication Context Class References. 
        The element values is an ordered array of strings 
        representing acceptable :term:`Authentication Context Class Reference` values appearing in order of preference.

        .. code-block:: javascript

            "acr": {"values":["2","http://id.incommon.org/assurance/bronze"]}

In addition to the claims member, 
these additional members are defined 
within the :term:`id_token` member of the OpenID Request Object:

.. glossary::

    max_age
        OPTIONAL. 

        (max authentication age): 
        Specifies that the End-User must be actively authenticated 
        if any present authentication is older than the specified number of seconds. 
        (The max_age request parameter corresponds to the OpenID 2.0 PAPE [OpenID.PAPE] max_auth_age request parameter.) 

It is anticipated that 
additional id_token parameters MAY be defined to request 
that additional properties hold for the authentication - 
for instance, that 
certain authentication policies be applied 
(in the same spirit of the OpenID 2.0 PAPE :term:`[OpenID.PAPE]` :term:`auth_policies` values), 
or that the authentication conform to the policies 
defined by a specified trust framework. 
These parameters MAY be defined by extension specifications.

All members of the id_token object are OPTIONAL. 
Other members MAY be present and if so, SHOULD be understood by both parties.

(draft 13)
