3.1.2.1.1.  "userinfo" member
###############################

The structure of the "userinfo" (UserInfo request) member is a JSON object that MAY contain the following members:

.. glossary::

    claims
        OPTIONAL. 
        (Requested Claims): Set of requested claims from the UserInfo endpoint. 
        If not present, the default UserInfo claims held by the OP are returned. 

    format
        OPTIONAL. 
        (Format): The requested format for the UserInfo endpoint information. 
        If not present, the format is an unsigned JSON object. 

    locale
        OPTIONAL. 
        (Locale): The default languages and scripts of the entire claim request, 
        represented as a space-separated list of BCP47 [RFC5646] language tags. 

The "claims" member is a JSON object with a member for each requested claim. The member names are the requested claim names. The member values may be either:

.. glossary::

    null
        This indicates that this claim is being requested in the default manner. In particular, this is a required claim. OR 

    A JSON Object
        This is used to provide additional information about the claim being requested. 

The claims MAY be represented in multiple languages and scripts. 
To specify languages and scripts for the claim request, BCP47 [:rfc:`5646`] language tags 
delimited by a "#" MUST be added to each requested claim name 
for which a particular language and script is requested. 

For example, the claim family_name#ja-Kana-JP is used for expressing Family Name in Katakana in Japanese, 
which is commonly used to index and represent the phonetics of the Kanji representation of the same value represented as family_name#ja-Hani-JP.

All members of the "claims" object are OPTIONAL.

The members of the JSON object value following a claim name defined by this specification are:

.. glossary::

    optional
        If this is an optional claim, 
        this member's value MUST be true, else, 
        if present, its value MUST be false, which indicates that it is a required claim. 
        If it is not present, it is a required claim. 

Other members MAY be defined to provide additional information about the requested claim. 
If the "claims" member is present in the "userinfo" object, the claims requested 
within it override the default claim set that would otherwise be returned from the UserInfo endpoint.

The "format" member of the "userinfo" object is used to specify the requested format of the UserInfo endpoint contents. Values defined are:

.. glossary::

    unsigned
        - in which case the contents are an unsigned JSON object 

    signed
        - in which case the contents are a signed JWT 

    encrypted
        - in which case the contents are an signed and encrypted JWT 

All members of the "userinfo" object are OPTIONAL. Other members MAY be present and if so, SHOULD understood by both parties. 
