2.4.1. Scope Descriptions
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

A **scope** is a bounded extent of access that is possible to perform on
a resource set.  A scope description is a JSON document with the
following properties and a Content-Type of **application/uma-scope+json**:


.. glossary::

   name  

      REQUIRED.  

      A human-readable string describing some scope (extent) of access.  

      This name is intended for ultimate use in the AM's user interface 
      to assist the user in setting policies for protected resource sets 
      that have this available scope.

      .. note::

            - 「三井住友銀行:普通預金口座」とか、「三井住友銀号:お客様情報」とか

   icon_uri  

      OPTIONAL.  

      A URI for a graphic icon representing the scope.

      The referenced icon is intended for ultimate use in the AM's user interface 
      to assist the user in setting policies for protected
      resource sets that have this available scope.

For example, this description characterizes a scope that involves
reading or viewing resources (vs. creating them or editing them in
some fashion):

.. code-block:: javascript

   {
     "name": "View",
     "icon_uri": "http://www.example.com/icons/reading-glasses"
   }

Scope descriptions MAY contain extension properties 
that are not defined in this specification.  
Extension names that are unprotected
from collisions are outside the scope of the current specification.

A host MUST list a :term:`resource set`'s available scopes using URI references 
(as defined in :ref:`Section 2.4.2 <uma_core.2.4.2>`).  

The scopes available for use at any one host MUST have unique URI references 
so that the host's scope descriptions are uniquely distinguishable.  
A scope URI reference MAY include a fragment identifier.  
Scope descriptions MAY reside anywhere.  
The host is not required to self-host scope descriptions 
and may wish to point to standardized scope descriptions residing elsewhere.  
Scope description documents MUST be accessible 
to AMs through GET calls made to these URI references.

See :ref:`Section 1.4 <uma_core.1.4>` for further discussion of scope-related concepts, and
Section 10 for a long-form example of scopes used in resource set
registration.

(draft 05)

