3.4.3.  Requester Obtains Authorization API Token
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

In this step, 
the requester acquires an AAT from the AM.  
The token represents the approval of this requesting party for this requester
to engage with this AM to supply claims, ask for permissions, and
perform any other tasks needed for obtaining authorization for access
to resources at all hosts that use this AM.

The requester MUST use OAuth 2.0 [OAuth2] to obtain the AAT.  
Here the requester acts in the role of an OAuth client requesting the
"http://docs.kantarainitiative.org/uma/scopes/authz.json" scope; the
requesting party acts in the role of an OAuth resource owner; and the
AM acts in the role of an OAuth authorization server.  Once the
requester has obtained its AAT, it presents it to the AM at the
permission request API endpoint; in presenting this endpoint the AM
acts in the role of a resource server.

By virtue of being able to identify this requester/requesting party
pair uniquely across all hosts, the AM is able to manage the process
of authorization and claims-gathering efficiently.  These management
processes are outside the scope of this specificaiton.

The AM MAY support the use of any grant type, but MUST support the
authorization_code grant type, and SHOULD support the SAML bearer
token grant type [OAuth-SAML]
(urn:ietf:params:oauth:grant-type:saml2-bearer) if it anticipates
working with requesters that are operating in environments where the
use of SAML is prevalent.  The AM MUST indicate all grant types it
supports in its configuration data, as defined in Section 1.5.

The requester has completed this step successfully when it possesses
a AAT it can use to get access to the AM's authorization API on the
requesting party's behalf.


(draft 05)
