5.1.  Protection API Extensibility Profile
---------------------------------------------

This section defines a profile for UMA where the authorization server
and resource server roles either reside in the same system entity or
otherwise have a privileged communications channel between them.
Following is a summary:

-  Identifying URI: http://docs.kantarainitiative.org/uma/profiles/
   prot-ext-1.0

-  Profile author and contact information: Mark Dobrinic
   (mdobrinic@cozmanova.com)

-  Updates or obsoletes: None; this profile is new.

-  Security considerations: If the entities do not use TLS but
   communicate across a transport layer as opposed to using internal
   same-entity communication, it is STRONGLY RECOMMENDED to use an
   alternate means of transport-layer security.

-  Privacy considerations: If the relationship between the roles is
   established in a manner that does not involve the resource owner
   at all, they each may maliciously leverage this relationship to
   observe the resource owner's personally identifiable information
   held in each system.

-  Error states: See below.

-  Binding obligations: Any applicable binding obligations are
   documented in [UMA-obligations].

Using this profile, the resource server MAY use means other than the
TLS- and OAuth-protected HTTP-based protection API to communicate
with the authorization server.  This involves the following
opportunities:

-  A PAT MAY be issued 
   without requiring an OAuth flow to establish one.

-  Resource sets MAY be registered (or configured) without requiring
   explicit use of the resource set registration endpoint or
   presentation of a PAT in any registration request.

-  Registration of requested permissions MAY be accomplished without
   requiring explicit use of the permission registration endpoint or
   presentation of a PAT in any registration request.

-  RPT introspection MAY be accomplished without requiring explicit
   use of the token introspection endpoint or presentation of a PAT
   in any introspection request.

-  Error states MAY arise and be reported in a different fashion from
   any HTTP-, OAuth-, and UMA-defined errors related to the
   protection API.

An authorization server using any of the opportunities afforded by
this profile MUST declare use of this profile by supplying the "prot-
ext-1.0" value for one of its "uma_profiles_supported" values in its
configuration data (see Section 1.4).

(draft09)
