5.2.  Authorization API Extensibility Profile
------------------------------------------------------

This section defines a profile for UMA where the authorization server
and client roles either reside in the same system entity or otherwise
have a privileged communications channel between them.  Following is
a summary:

-  Identifying URI: http://docs.kantarainitiative.org/uma/profiles/
   authz-ext-1.0

-  Profile author and contact information: Mark Dobrinic
   (mdobrinic@cozmanova.com)

-  Updates or obsoletes: None; this profile is new.

-  Security considerations: If the entities do not use TLS but
   communicate across a transport layer as opposed to using internal
   same-entity communication, it is STRONGLY RECOMMENDED to use an
   alternate means of transport-layer security.

-  Privacy considerations: If the relationship between the roles is
   established in a manner that does not involve the requesting party
   at all, they each may maliciously leverage this relationship to
   observe the requesting party's personally identifiable information
   held in each system.

-  Error states: See below.

-  Binding obligations: Any applicable binding obligations are
   documented in [UMA-obligations].

Using this profile, the resource server MAY use means other than the
TLS- and OAuth-protected HTTP-based authorization API to communicate
with the authorization server.  This involves the following
opportunities:

-  An AAT MAY be issued without requiring an OAuth flow to establish
   one.

-  An RPT MAY be issued without requiring explicit use of the RPT
   endpoint or presentation of an AAT in any RPT request.

-  Authorization data MAY be associated with the RPT without
   requiring explicit use of the authorization request endpoint or
   presentation of an AAT, RPT, or ticket in any request.

-  The client MAY use alternate means of initating a claims-gathering
   flow with the authorization server.  (Any further profiling of
   this profile might involve a claim profile as well; see
   Section 6.3.)

-  Error states MAY arise and be reported in a different fashion from
   any HTTP-, OAuth-, and UMA-defined errors related to the
   authorization API.

An authorization server using any of the opportunities afforded by
this profile MUST declare use of this profile by supplying the
"authz-ext-1.0" value for one of its "uma_profiles_supported" values
in its configuration data (see Section 1.4).

(draft09)
