5.3.  Resource Interface Extensibility Profile
---------------------------------------------------

This section defines a profile for UMA where the resource server and
client roles either reside in the same system entity or otherwise
have a privileged communications channel between them.  Following is
a summary:

-  Identifying URI: http://docs.kantarainitiative.org/uma/profiles/rsrc-ext-1.0

-  Profile author and contact information: Mark Dobrinic
   (mdobrinic@cozmanova.com)

-  Updates or obsoletes: None; this profile is new.

-  Security considerations: If the entities do not use TLS but
   communicate across a transport layer as opposed to using internal
   same-entity communication, it is STRONGLY RECOMMENDED to use an
   alternate means of transport-layer security.

-  Privacy considerations: If the relationship between the roles is
   established in a manner that does not involve the authorization
   server at all, they each may maliciously leverage this
   relationship to observe the resource owner's or requesting party's
   personally identifiable information held in each system.

-  Error states: See below.

-  Binding obligations: Any applicable binding obligations are
   documented in [UMA-obligations].

Using this profile, the resource server MAY use means other than an
HTTP-based resource interface to communicate with the authorization
server.  This involves the following opportunities:

-  Resource access attempts MAY be accomplished without requiring
   explicit use of the HTTP-based endpoint or presentation of an RPT.

-  Error states MAY arise and be reported in a different fashion from
   any HTTP-, OAuth-, and UMA-defined errors related to the protected
   resource's interface.

An authorization server involved in deployments where resource
servers and clients are known to be using opportunities afforded by
the resource interface extensibility profile MAY declare use of this
profile by supplying the "rsrc-ext-1.0" value for one of its
"uma_profiles_supported" values in its configuration data (see
Section 1.4).


(draft09)
