4.1.  Forming the Client Configuration Endpoint URL
--------------------------------------------------------

The Authorization Server MUST provide the Client with the fully qualified URL in the registration_client_uri element of the Client Registration Response, per Section 3.2. The Authorization Server MUST NOT expect the Client to construct or discover this URL on its own. The Client MUST use the URL as given by the server and MUST NOT construct this URL from component pieces.

Depending on deployment characteristics, the Client Configuration Endpoint URL can take any number of forms. It is RECOMMENDED that this endpoint URL be formed through the use of a server-constructed URL string which combines the Client Registration Endpoint's URL and the issued Client ID for this Client, with the latter as either a path parameter or a query parameter. For example, a Client with the Client ID s6BhdRkqt3 could be given a Client Configuration Endpoint URL of https://server.example.com/register/s6BhdRkqt3 (path parameter) or of https://server.example.com/register?client_id=s6BhdRkqt3 (query parameter). In both of these cases, the Client simply uses the URL as given.

These common patterns can help the Server to more easily determine the Client to which the request pertains, which MUST be matched against the Client to which the Registration Access Token was issued. If desired, the Server MAY simply return the Client Registration Endpoint URL as the Client Configuration Endpoint URL and change behavior based on the authentication context provided by the Registration Access Token.

( draft 19, http://openid.net/specs/openid-connect-registration-1_0.html#AccessURL )
