# 2020-08-12 (水曜日)

## URN: q-component

- [Uniform Resource Names (URNs) : 2.3.2.  q-component](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc8141)


The q-component is intended for passing parameters to either the `named resource` or a system that can supply the requested service, 
for interpretation by that resource or system.  
(By contrast, passing parameters to URN resolution services is handled by r-components as described in the previous section.)

The URN q-component has the **same syntax** as the URI query component but is introduced by "?=", not "?" alone.  
For a URN that may be resolved to a URI that is a locator, 
the semantics of the q-component are identical to those for the query component of that URI.  
Thus, URN resolvers returning a URI that is a locator for a URN with a q-component do this by copying the q-component 
from the URN to the query component of the URI.  An example of the copying operation appears below.

This specification does not specify a required behavior in the case of URN resolution to a URI 
that is a locator when the original URN has a q-component and the URI has a query string.  
Different circumstances may require different approaches.  Resolvers SHOULD document their strategy in such cases.

If the URN does not resolve to a URI that is a locator, 
the interpretation of the q-component is undefined by this specification.
For URNs that may be resolved to a URI that is a locator,
the semantics of the q-component are identical to those for queries to the resource located via that URI.

ロケーターとして解決されるURNの`q-component` は URI のクエリと同等。


For the sake of consistency with [RFC 3986](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc3986), 
the general syntax and the semantics of q-components are not defined by, 
or dependent on, the URN namespace of the URN.  
In parallel with RFC 3986, 
specifics of syntax and semantics, 
e.g., which keywords or terms are meaningful,
of course may depend on a particular URN namespace or even a particular resource.

The sequence "?=" introduces the q-component.  
The q-component ends with a "#" character (number sign, which begins an f-component).  
If that character does not appear, 
the q-component continues to the end of the URN.  
The characters slash ("/") and question mark ("?") may represent data within the q-component.  

Note that characters outside the ASCII range [RFC20] MUST be percent-encoded 
using the method defined in Section 2.1 of the generic URI specification [RFC3986].

As described in Section 3, 
the q-component SHALL NOT be taken into account when determining URN-equivalence.

URN namespaces and associated information placement in syntax SHOULD
be designed to avoid any need for a resolution service to consider the q-component.
Namespace-specific and more generic resolution systems MUST NOT require that q-component information be passed to them for processing.

Consider the hypothetical example of passing parameters to an application 
that returns weather reports from different regions or for different time periods.
This could perhaps be accomplished by specifying latitude and longitude coordinates and datetimes 
in the URN's q-component, resulting in URNs such as the following.

~~~
      urn:example:weather?=op=map&lat=39.56
         &lon=-104.85&datetime=1969-07-21T02:56:15Z
~~~

If this example resolved to an HTTP URI, the result might look like:

~~~
      https://weatherapp.example?op=map&lat=39.56
         &lon=-104.85&datetime=1969-07-21T02:56:15Z
~~~

