1.1.  Background & Context
---------------------------------------------------------

The Simple Cloud Identity Management (SCIM) specification is designed to make managing user identity 
in cloud based applications and services easier. 

The specification suite seeks to build upon experience with existing schemas and deployments, 
placing specific emphasis on simplicity of development and integration, 
while applying existing authentication, authorization, and privacy models. 
It's intent is to reduce the cost and complexity of user management operations 
by providing a common user schema and extension model, 
as well as binding documents to provide patterns for exchanging this schema using standard protocols. 
In essence, make it fast, cheap, and easy to move users in to, out of, and around the cloud.

The SCIM scenarios are overview user stories designed to help clarify the intended scope 
and general operation of the SCIM effort. 
They are part use case, part user story and part overall positioning document. 
For consistency, 
they are based on and relate back to the :doc:`latest protocol specification (REST API) <scim_rest>` 
and the latest core schema.

To aid reading, understanding and commenting on the SCIM scenarios, 
this document makes consistent use of the three key model concepts 
called :term:`Triggers`, :term:`Actors` and :term:`Modes`. 
Each of these concepts is discussed in more detail 
in the :ref:`Model Concepts section of this document <scim_scenarios.1.2>`.  

In summary, 
:term:`Triggers` are things that start SCIM flows, 
:term:`Actors` are the operating parities participating in the flow, 
and :term:`Modes` represent the overall intent of the action (**push** or **pull**). 

There is nothing normative or overly definitive about these model terms. 
They are only relevant to SCIM to the extent 
in which they help frame the discussion and create a common language for the ongoing discussion.

(draft 04)
