1. Introduction
====================

NOTE: Most of the following text is taken from :term:`[AES-WRAP]`, 
and the assertions regarding the security of the AES Key Wrap algorithm 
are made by the US Government, 
not by the authors of this document.

This specification is intended to satisfy 
the National Institute of Standards and Technology (:ref:`NIST`) 
Key Wrap requirement to:  
Design a cryptographic algorithm called a Key Wrap 
that uses the Advanced Encryption Standard (AES) 
as a primitive to securely encrypt plaintext key(s) 
with any associated integrity information and data,
such that the combination could be longer than 
the width of the AES block size (128-bits).  

Each ciphertext bit should be a highly non-linear function 
of each plaintext bit, 
and (when unwrapping) each plaintext bit should be 
a highly non-linear function of each ciphertext bit.  

It is sufficient to approximate 
an **ideal pseudorandom permutation** to the degree 
that exploitation of undesirable phenomena is as unlikely 
as guessing the AES engine key.

This key wrap algorithm needs to provide 
ample security to protect keys in the context of prudently 
designed key management architecture.



Throughout this document, 
any data being wrapped will be referred to as the key data.  

It makes no difference to the algorithm 
whether the data being wrapped is a key; 
in fact there is often good reason to include other data with the key, 
to wrap multiple keys together, or
to wrap data that isn't strictly a key.  

So, 
the term "key data" is used broadly to mean any data being wrapped, 
but particularly keys,
since this is primarily a key wrap algorithm.  

The key used to do the wrapping will be referred to 
as the :term:`key-encryption key` (:term:`KEK`).

In this document a KEK can be any valid key 
supported by the AES codebook.  

That is, a KEK can be 
a 128-bit key, a 192-bit key, or a 256-bit key.
