5.6.  Emergency Alerting
--------------------------------

Emergency alerting is an emerging use case 
for IP networks :term:`[I-D.ietf-atoca-requirements]`.  


Alerting systems allow authorities to
warn users of impending danger by sending alert messages to connected
devices.  For example, in the event of hurricane or tornado, alerts
might be sent to all devices in the path of the storm.

The most critical security requirement for alerting systems is that
it must not be possible for an attacker to send false alerts to
devices.  Such a capability would potentially allow an attacker to
create wide-spread panic.  In practice, alert systems prevent these
attacks both by controls on sending messages at points where alerts
are originated, as well as by having recipients of alerts verify that
the alert was sent by an authorized source.  The former type of
control implemented with local security on hosts from which alerts
can be originated.  The latter type implemented by digital signatures
on alert messages (using channel-based or object-based mechanisms).
With an object-based mechanism, the signature value is encoded in a
secure object.  With a channel-based mechanism, the alert is "signed"
by virtue of being sent over an authenticated, integrity-protected
channel.

Alerts typically reach end recipients via a series of intermediaries.
For example, while a national weather service might originate a
hurricane alert, it might first be delivered to a national gateway,
and then to network operators, who broadcast it to end subscribers.

::

        +------------+    +------------+    +------------+
        | Originator |    | Originator |    | Originator |
        +------------+    +------------+    +------------+
              |                 .                 .
              +-----------------+..................
                                |
                                V
                           +---------+
                           | Gateway |
                           +---------+
                                |
                   +------------+------------+
                   |                         |
                   V                         V
              +---------+               +---------+
              | Network |               | Network |
              +---------+               +---------+
                   |                         |
            +------+-----+            +------+-----+
            |            |            |            |
            V            V            V            V
        +--------+   +--------+   +--------+   +--------+
        | Device |   | Device |   | Device |   | Device |
        +--------+   +--------+   +--------+   +--------+


               Figure 4: Delivering an emergency alert

In order to verify alert signatures, recipients must be provisioned
with the proper public keys for trusted alert authorities.  This
trust may be "piece-wise" along the path the alert takes.  For
example, the alert relays operated by networks might have a full set
of certificates for all alert originators, while end devices may only
trust their local alert relay.  Or devices might require that a
device be signed by an authorized originator and by its local
network's relay.

This scenario creates a need for multiple signatures on alert
documents, so that an alert can bear signatures from any or all of
the entities that processed it along the path.  In order to minimize
complexity, these signatures should be "modular", in the sense that a
new signature can be added without a need to alter or recompute
previous signatures.

(draft06)
