1.  Introduction
================================

Web-based protocols often require the discovery of host policy 
or metadata, 
where "host" is not a single resource 
but the entity controlling the collection of resources 
identified by Uniform Resource Identifiers (URIs) 
with a common URI host [RFC3986], 
which can be served by one or more servers.

While web protocols have a wide range of metadata needs, 
they often use metadata that is concise, 
has simple syntax requirements, 
and can benefit from storing their metadata 
in a common location used by other related protocols.

Because there is no URI or representation available 
to describe a host, 
many of the methods used for associating per-resource metadata
(such as HTTP headers) are not available.  

This often leads to the overloading of the root HTTP resource 
(e.g., 'http://example.com/') with host metadata 
that is not specific or relevant to the root resource itself.

This document defines a lightweight metadata document format 
for describing hosts 
(thus the name "host-meta"), 
intended for use by web-based protocols.  

This document also registers the well-known URI suffix "host-meta" 
in the Well-Known URI Registry established by :term:`[RFC5785]`.

In addition, 
there are times when a host-wide scope 
for policy or metadata is too coarse-grained. 

host-meta provides two mechanisms for providing resource-specific information:

-  Link Templates - links using a URI template 
   instead of a fixed target URI, 
   providing a way to define generic rules for generating resource-specific links 
   by applying the individual resource URI to the template.

-  Link-based Resource Descriptor Documents (LRDD, pronounced 'lard')
   - descriptor documents providing resource-specific information,
   typically information that cannot be expressed using link templates.  

   LRDD documents are linked to resources or host-meta documents 
   using link templates with the "lrdd" relation type.

