5.  Security Considerations
====================================

The host-meta document is designed to be used by other applications
explicitly "opting-in" to use the facility.  Therefore, any such
application MUST review the specific security implications of using
host-meta documents.  By itself, this specification does not provide
any protections or guarantees that any given host-meta document is
under the control of the appropriate entity as required by each
application.

The metadata returned by the host-meta resource is presumed to be
under the control of the appropriate authority and representative of
all the resources described by it.  If this resource is compromised
or otherwise under the control of another party, it may represent a
risk to the security of the server and data served by it, depending
on the applications using it.

Applications utilizing the host-meta document where the authenticity
of the information is necessary MUST require the use of the HTTPS
protocol and MUST NOT produce a host-meta document using other means.
In addition, such applications MUST require that any redirection
leading to the retrieval of a host-meta document also utilize the
HTTPS protocol.

Since the host-meta document is authoritative for the entire host,
not just the authority (combination of scheme, host, and port) of the
host-meta document server, applications MUST ensure that using a
host-meta document for another URI authority does not represent a
potential security exploit.

Protocols using host-meta templates must evaluate the construction of
their templates as well as any protocol-specific variables or syntax
to ensure that the templates cannot be abused by an attacker.  For
example, a client can be tricked into following a malicious link due
to a poorly constructed template that produces unexpected results
when its variable values contain unexpected characters.

