2.  Token Revocation
================================

Implementations MUST support the revocation of refresh tokens and
SHOULD support the revocation of access tokens (see Implementation Note).

The client requests the revocation of a particular token by making an
HTTP POST request to the token revocation endpoint URL.  
This URL MUST conform to the rules given in [RFC6749], Section 3.1.  
Clients MUST verify that the URL is an HTTPS URL.

The means to obtain the location of the revocation endpoint is out of
the scope of this specification.  
For example, 
the client developer may consult the server's documentation 
or automatic discovery may be used.  
As this endpoint is handling security credentials, 
the endpoint location needs to be obtained from a trustworthy source.

.. note::
    - revocation エンドポイントが何処にあるかはこのスペックでは問わない


Since requests to the token revocation endpoint result 
in the transmission of plaintext credentials in the HTTP request, 
URLs for token revocation endpoints MUST be HTTPS URLs.  
The authorization server MUST use Transport Layer Security (TLS) [RFC5246] 
in a version compliant with [RFC6749], Section 1.6.  
Implementations MAY also support additional transport-layer security mechanisms 
that meet their security requirements.

If the host of the token revocation endpoint can also be reached over HTTP, 
then the server SHOULD also offer a revocation service at the corresponding HTTP URI, 
but it MUST NOT publish this URI as a token revocation endpoint.  
This ensures that tokens accidentally sent over HTTP will be revoked.


(http://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc7009#section-2)
