.. _jwe.crit:

4.1.12. "crit" (Critical) Header Parameter
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

The "crit" (critical) header parameter indicates that extensions to
[[ this specification ]] are being used that MUST be understood and
processed.  Its value is an array listing the header parameter names
defined by those extensions that are used in the JWE Header.  If any
of the listed extension header parameters are not understood and
supported by the receiver, it MUST reject the JWE.  Senders MUST NOT
include header parameter names defined by [[ this specification ]] or
by [JWA] for use with JWE, duplicate names, or names that do not
occur as header parameter names within the JWE Header in the "crit"
list.  Senders MUST not use the empty list "[]" as the "crit" value.
Recipients MAY reject the JWE if the critical list contains any
header parameter names defined by [[ this specification ]] or by
[JWA] for use with JWE, or any other constraints on its use are
violated.  This header parameter MUST be integrity protected, and
therefore MUST occur only with the JWE Protected Header, when used.
Use of this header parameter is OPTIONAL.  This header parameter MUST
be understood by implementations.

An example use, along with a hypothetical "exp" (expiration-time)
field is:

.. code-block:: javascript

     {"alg":"RSA-OAEP",
      "enc":"A256GCM",
      "crit":["exp"],
      "exp":1363284000
     }

( https://tools.ietf.org/html/draft-ietf-jose-json-web-encryption-13#section-4.1.12 )
