1.1.3.1 The SCORM Content Aggregation Model (CAM) Book
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The :doc:`SCORM CAM book <scrom_cam>` [18] defines 
responsibilities and requirements for building content aggregations 
(i.e., the process of assembling, labeling and packaging content). 

The book contains information 
on creating content packages, 
applying metadata to the components 
in the content package and applying sequencing and navigation details 
in the context of a content package. 

Several dependencies span from the SCORM CAM book to the SCORM RTE book.


Metadata is “data about data”. 
Metadata can be used to describe the different components of the SCORM content model 
(Content Aggregations, Content Organizations, Activities, SCOs and Assets). 

Metadata, a form of labeling, enhances search and discovery of these components. 

At this time, 
there are no defined relationships between metadata and the SCORM Run-Time Environment Data Model. 

For these reasons, 
metadata is not discussed in detail in the SCORM RTE book. 

This relationship may change as SCORM evolves.


A content package, in a general sense, 
bundles content objects with a content structure that is described by a **manifest**. 

A SCORM content package may represent a SCORM course, lesson, module 
or may simply be a collection of related content objects that may be stored in a repository. 

The manifest, 
an essential part of all SCORM content packages, 
is contained in an Extensible Markup Language (XML)-based file named imsmanifest.xml. 

This file, similar in many ways to a “packaging slip”, 
describes the contents of the package and may include an optional description of the content structure.


SCORM content packages may include additional information 
that describes how an LMS is intended to process the content package and its contents. 

Some of these elements are used by the SCORM RTE model.

• Content object launch locations and launch parameters are also described 
  as elements in a SCORM content package. 

  These elements are essential to the launch and delivery of content objects. 

  The SCORM RTE book details these elements and their effects on launching content objects.

• Several elements in a SCORM content package affect initialization and management 
  of a content object’s run-time data model. 

  The SCORM RTE book details these data model elements and the required LMS behaviors.

• Other elements in a SCORM content package describe initial values 
  for specific elements of a content object’s run-time data model. 

  The SCORM RTE book details these data model elements and their initialization behavior.

• When a SCORM content package includes a description of content structure, 
  sequencing information elements may be added to define an intended approach 
  to sequencing the package’s content objects. 

  A SCORM content package may include User Interface (UI) elements 
  that are intended to provide guidance to an LMS on how certain UI navigation controls 
  are to present, enabled or hidden. When a content object is launched, 
  as defined in this book, these elements may be used, 
  in conjunction with sequencing information 
  (refer to the SCORM SN book), 
  to present the correct 
  (at the time of rendering) UI navigation controls 
  (e.g., “Continue” or “Previous” user interface controls).


For a better understanding of how all of the elements described above 
are specified in a SCORM content package, refer to the :doc:`SCORM CAM book <scorm_cam>`.
