1. Introduction
==========================================

The Security Assertion Markup Language (SAML) 2.0
:term:`[OASIS.saml-core-2.0-os]` is an XML-based framework 
that allows identity and security information to be shared across security domains.  
The SAML specification, 
while primarily targeted at providing cross domain Web browser single sign-on, 
was also designed to be modular and extensible to facilitate use in other contexts.

The :term:`Assertion`, an XML :term:`security token`, 
is a fundamental construct of SAML that is often adopted for use 
in other protocols and specifications.  
An Assertion is generally issued by an identity provider 
and consumed by a service provider 
who relies on its content to identify the Assertion's subject 
for security related purposes.

The OAuth 2.0 Authorization Protocol :term:`[RFC6749]` provides 
a method for making authenticated HTTP requests to a resource 
using an access token.  
Access tokens are issued to third-party clients by an
authorization server (AS) with the 
(sometimes implicit) approval of the resource owner.  

In OAuth, 
an :term:`authorization grant` is an abstract term used to describe **intermediate credentials** 
that represent the resource owner authorization.  
An authorization grant is used by the :term:`client` 
to obtain an access token.  

Several authorization grant types are defined 
to support a wide range of client types and user experiences.  
OAuth also allows for the definition of new extension
grant types to support additional clients or to provide a bridge
between OAuth and other trust frameworks.  

Finally, 
OAuth allows the definition of additional authentication mechanisms to be used by
clients when interacting with the authorization server.

The OAuth 2.0 Assertion Profile :term:`[I-D.ietf-oauth-assertions]` is an
abstract extension to OAuth 2.0 that provides a general framework for
the use of Assertions as client credentials and/or authorization grants with OAuth 2.0.  
This specification profiles the OAuth 2.0 Assertion Profile [I-D.ietf-oauth-assertions] 
to define an extension grant type that uses a SAML 2.0 Bearer Assertion 
to request an OAuth 2.0 access token as well as for use as client credentials.  

The format and processing rules for the SAML Assertion defined in this
specification are intentionally similar, though not identical, 
to those in the Web Browser SSO Profile defined in SAML Profiles
:term:`[OASIS.saml-profiles-2.0-os]`.  
This specification is reusing, to the extent reasonable, 
concepts and patterns from that well-established Profile.

This document defines how a SAML Assertion can be used to request an
access token when a client wishes to utilize an existing trust
relationship, expressed through the semantics of (and digital
signature calculated over) the SAML Assertion, without a direct user
approval step at the authorization server.  

It also defines how a SAML Assertion can be used as a **client authentication mechanism**.  
The use of an Assertion for client authentication is orthogonal to and
separable from using an Assertion as an authorization grant.  
They can be used either in combination or separately.  
Client assertion authentication is nothing more than an alternative way 
for a client to authenticate to the token endpoint 
and must be used in conjunction with some grant type to form a complete 
and meaningful protocol request.  
Assertion authorization grants may be used with or without client authentication or identification.  
Whether or not client authentication is needed in conjunction 
with an assertion authorization grant, 
as well as the supported types of client authentication, 
are policy decisions at the discretion of the authorization server.

The process by which the client obtains the SAML Assertion, 
prior to exchanging it with the authorization server or using it 
for client authentication, is out of scope.

( draft 15, http://tools.ietf.org/html/draft-ietf-oauth-saml2-bearer-15#section-1 )
