1.1.1. Using the SCORM Sequencing and Navigation Book
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

This book should prove useful to LMS and authoring tool vendors wishing to support SCORM 2004 4th Edition (4th Ed.) in their products, and to anyone wishing to understand how sequencing can be applied to content and the relationship between sequencing and LMSs, such as SCORM content developers.
Early portions of this book, Section 1: SCORM Sequencing and Navigation (SN) and Section 2: Sequencing Concepts, cover the concepts that apply to SCORM Sequencing. These sections are recommended reading for those seeking an introduction to the concepts behind SCORM Sequencing and who may not wish to delve deeply into technical details.
Section 3: The Sequencing Definition Model is the first section providing thorough technical details about Sequencing. It section explains each piece of sequencing information that may be used to describe sequencing strategies during content development as well as examples of how they may be used.
Section 4: Sequencing Behaviors describes in detail what information is being tracked for sequencing purposes and how learner progress with content objects affects the tracking information. It covers SCORM sequencing behavior in detail, including specific LMS behavior requirements for applying sequencing information to the tracking information.
Section 5: The SCORM Navigation Model describes a run-time data model that enables content objects to query the LMS for sequencing state and to indicate to the LMS desired navigation requests. It also provides guidance to LMSs for providing appropriate navigation controls to learners.
In addition, Appendix C provides updated and detailed, normative, pseudo code that explicitly defines SCORM sequencing behaviors.

