2.1.  OpenID Connect Scopes
--------------------------------------------

OpenID Connect Clients use :term:`scope` values 
as :ref:`defined in 3.3 of OAuth 2.0 <oauth.3.3>` :term:`[OAuth2.0]` 
to specify what access privileges are requested for Access Tokens. 

The scopes associated with Access Tokens determine 
what resources will be available when they are used to access OAuth 2.0 protected endpoints. 

For OpenID Connect, 
scopes can be used to request that specific sets of information be made available 
from the :term:`UserInfo Endpoint`, and to request an :term:`ID Token`. 

OAuth 2.0 allows additional scope values to be specified, as extensions. 
This specification describes only the scope values used by OpenID Connect.

OpenID Connect defines the following scope values:

.. glossary::

    openid
        REQUIRED. 

        Informs the Authorization Server that the Client is making an OpenID Connect request. 
        If the :term:`openid` scope value is not present, 
        the request MUST NOT be treated as an OpenID Connect request. 
        This scope value requests access to the :term:`user_id` Claim at the UserInfo Endpoint. 

    profile
        OPTIONAL. 

        This scope value requests that access to the End-User's default profile Claims 
        at the UserInfo Endpoint be granted by the issued Access Token. 
        These claims are: 
        name, family_name, given_name, middle_name, nickname, preferred_username, 
        profile, picture, website, gender, birthday, zoneinfo, locale, and updated_time. 

    email
        OPTIONAL. 

        This scope value requests that access to the :term:`email` and :term:`email_verified` Claims 
        at the UserInfo Endpoint be granted by the issued Access Token. 

    address
        OPTIONAL. 

        This scope value requests that access to the :term:`address` Claim 
        at the UserInfo Endpoint be granted by the issued Access Token. 

    phone
        OPTIONAL. 

        This scope value requests that access to the :term:`phone_number` Claim 
        at the UserInfo Endpoint be granted by the issued Access Token. 

Multiple scopes MAY be requested by creating a space delimited, case sensitive list of ASCII scope values.

In some cases, the End-User will be given the option to have the OpenID Provider decline to provide some or all information requested by Clients.

To increase new account activation, a Client may elect to only request a subset of the information available from the UserInfo Endpoint.

The following is a non-normative example of a scope Request.

::

    scope=openid profile email phone


(draft 20)
