4.  Definition
=========================

The syntax of the 'acct' URI scheme is defined under Section 7 of
this document.  Although 'acct' URIs take the form "user@host", the
scheme is designed for the purpose of identification instead of
interaction (regarding this distinction, see Section 1.2.2 of
[RFC3986]).  The "Internet resource" identified by an 'acct' URI is a
user's account hosted at a service provider, where the service
provider is typically associated with a DNS domain name.  Thus a
particular 'acct' URI is formed by setting the "user" portion to the
user's account name at the service provider and by setting the "host"
portion to the DNS domain name of the service provider.

Consider the case of a user with an account name of "foobar" on a
microblogging service "status.example.net".  It is taken as
convention that the string "foobar@status.example.net" designates
that account.  This is expressed as a URI using the 'acct' scheme as
"acct:foobar@status.example.net".

A common scenario is for a user to register with a service provider
using an identifier (such as an email address) that is associated
with some other service provider.  For example, a user with the email
address "juliet@capulet.example" might register with a commerce
website whose domain name is "shoppingsite.example".  In order to use
her email address as the localpart of the 'acct' URI, the at-sign
character (U+0040) needs to be percent-encoded as described in
[RFC3986].  Thus the resulting 'acct' URI would be
"juliet%40capulet.example@shoppingsite.example.com".

It is not assumed that an entity will necessarily be able to interact
with a user's account using any particular application protocol, such
as email; to enable such interaction, an entity would need to use the
appropriate URI scheme for such a protocol, such as the 'mailto'
scheme.  While it might be true that the 'acct' URI minus the scheme
name (e.g., "user@example.com" derived from "acct:user@example.com")
can be reached via email or some other application protocol, that
fact would be purely contingent and dependent upon the deployment
practices of the provider.

Because an 'acct' URI enables abstract identification only and not
interaction, this specification provides no method for dereferencing
an 'acct' URI on its own, e.g., as the value of the 'href' attribute
of an HTML anchor element.  For example, there is no behavior
specified in this document for an 'acct' URI used as follows:

<a href='acct:bob@example.com'>find out more</a>

Any protocol that uses 'acct' URIs is responsible for specifying how
an 'acct' URI is employed in the context of that protocol (in
particular, how it is dereferenced or resolved; see [RFC3986]).  As a
concrete example, an "Account Information" application of the
WebFinger protocol [I-D.ietf-appsawg-webfinger] might take an 'acct'
URI, resolve the host portion to find a WebFinger server, and then
pass the 'acct' URI as a parameter in a WebFinger HTTP request for
metadata (i.e., web links [RFC5988]) about the resource.  For
example:

GET /.well-known/webfinger?resource=acct%3Abob%40example.com HTTP/1.1

The service retrieves the metadata associated with the account
identified by that URI and then provides that metadata to the
requesting entity in an HTTP response.

If an application needs to compare two 'acct' URIs (e.g., for
purposes of authentication and authorization), it MUST do so using
case normalization and percent-encoding normalization as specified in
Sections 6.2.2.1 and 6.2.2.2 of [RFC3986].


( draft 6 http://tools.ietf.org/html/draft-ietf-appsawg-acct-uri-06#section-4 )
