6.2.2.  Static Client Registration
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Backplane Servers MAY provide an administrative interface through which Bus Owners can register Backplane Clients. The interactions between a Backplane Server and its Bus Owner customers (e.g. registration, authentication, Bus allocation) remain outside of the scope of this specification.

For the purpose of Privileged Access Level authorization a server-side Backplane Client needs to be identified by a URL that corresponds to the Redirection URI defined in section 2.1.1 (Habber-Lahav, E., Recordon, D., and D. Hardt, “The OAuth 2.0 Authorization Protocol,” May 2011.) [OAuth2] and used in the authorization step in section 4 (Habber-Lahav, E., Recordon, D., and D. Hardt, “The OAuth 2.0 Authorization Protocol,” May 2011.) [OAuth2]. The redirection URI MUST be obtained and approved by the Bus Owner administrator. Backplane Servers may assist Bus Owner administrators by providing the redirection URIs of well known Backplane Clients (such as popular Widget providers) in their administration user interface.

When completing a Backplane Server Initiated Authorization (Backplane Server Initiated Authorization) if the previously unregistered Backplane Client opted to also send client credentials, the Backplane Server MAY register (Static Client Registration) the Backplane Client. The Backplane Server MUST verify all of the following:

-   The grant_type is "code".
-   The code is present and the value is recognized as a previously issued, one-time use, valid code.
-   The redirect_uri is present and matches the redirect_uri for which the supplied code was issued.
-   The client_id is present and is different than "anonymous" or any other already registered client_id.

After a successful registration the Backplane Server MUST continue processing the Authenticated Access Token Request (Authenticated Access Token Request) 

(draft 08)
