3.  The WWW-Authenticate Response Header Field
========================================================

If the :term:`protected resource request` does not include 
authentication credentials or does not contain an access token 
that enables access to the protected resource, 
the resource server MUST include the HTTP ":term:`WWW-Authenticate`" response header field; 
it MAY include it in response to other conditions as well.  
The "WWW-Authenticate" header field uses the framework defined by HTTP/1.1 :term:`[RFC2617]`.

All challenges defined by this specification MUST use the **auth-scheme** value "**Bearer**".  
This scheme MUST be followed by one or more **auth-param** values.  
The auth-param attributes used or defined by this specification are as follows.  
Other auth-param attributes MAY be used as well.

.. note::

    - auth-scheme : Bearer
    - auth-param :
    
        - realm
        - scope

A "**realm**" attribute MAY be included to indicate the scope of
protection in the manner described in HTTP/1.1 :term:`[RFC2617]`.  
The "realm" attribute MUST NOT appear more than once.

The "**scope**" attribute is defined 
in :ref:`Section 3.3 <oauth.3.3>` of :term:`[RFC6749]`.  
The "scope" attribute is a **space-delimited list** of **case-sensitive** :term:`scope`
values indicating the required scope of the access token for accessing the requested resource. 
"scope" values are implementation defined; 
there is no centralized registry for them; 
allowed values are defined by the authorization server.  
The order of "scope" values is not significant.  
In some cases, 
the "scope" value will be used when requesting a new access token 
with sufficient scope of access to utilize the protected resource.  
Use of the "scope" attribute is OPTIONAL.  
The "scope" attribute MUST NOT appear more than once.  
The "scope" value is intended for programmatic use and is not meant to be displayed to end-users.

Two example scope values follow; 
these are taken from the OpenID Connect :term:`[OpenID.Messages]` 
and the Open Authentication Technology Committee (OATC) Online Multimedia Authorization Protocol :term:`[OMAP]`
OAuth 2.0 use cases, respectively:

::

     scope="openid profile email"
     scope="urn:example:channel=HBO&urn:example:rating=G,PG-13"

If the protected resource request included an access token and failed
authentication, the resource server SHOULD include the "error"
attribute to provide the client with the reason why the access
request was declined.  The parameter value is described in
Section 3.1.  In addition, the resource server MAY include the
"error_description" attribute to provide developers a human-readable
explanation that is not meant to be displayed to end-users.  It also
MAY include the "error_uri" attribute with an absolute URI
identifying a human-readable web page explaining the error.  
The "error", "error_description", and "error_uri" attributes MUST NOT
appear more than once.

Values for the "scope" attribute 
(specified in :ref:`Appendix A.4 <oauth.appendix.a.4>` of [RFC6749]) 
MUST NOT include characters outside the set %x21 / %x23-5B / %x5D-7E 
for representing scope values and %x20 for delimiters
between scope values.  
Values for the "error" and "error_description"
attributes 
(specified in :ref:`Appendixes A.7 <oauth.appendix.a.7>` 
and :ref:`A.8 <oauth.appendix.a.8>` of [RFC6749]) MUST
NOT include characters outside the set %x20-21 / %x23-5B / %x5D-7E.

Values for the "error_uri" attribute (specified in :ref:`Appendix A.9 <oauth.appendix.a.9>` 
of [RFC6749]) MUST conform to the URI-reference syntax and thus MUST NOT
include characters outside the set %x21 / %x23-5B / %x5D-7E.

For example, in response to a protected resource request without
authentication:

::

     HTTP/1.1 401 Unauthorized
     WWW-Authenticate: Bearer realm="example"

And in response to a protected resource request with an
authentication attempt using an expired access token:

::

     HTTP/1.1 401 Unauthorized
     WWW-Authenticate: Bearer realm="example",
                       error="invalid_token",
                       error_description="The access token expired"

( http://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc6750#section-3 )
