2.3.1.3.  Request File Method
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The :term:`Request File Method` differs from the other methods 
in that it uses a :term:`Request File` that contains a :term:`OpenID Request Object`. 
It then sends the :term:`Request File URL` as part of :term:`the Authorization Request`.

The :term:`Client` prepares an :term:`Authorization Request` 
using the desired HTTP "GET" or "POST" method. 
The :term:`Client` SHOULD use the HTTP "GET" method, 
but MAY use the HTTP "POST" method. 
The scheme used in the :term:`Authorization URL` MUST be HTTPS. 
The :term:`Client` MUST perform a TLS/SSL server certificate check, 
per RFC 6125 [:term:`RFC6125`].

The :term:`Authorization Request` MUST NOT include the :term:`request` parameter. 
The :term:`Authorization Request` MUST include the request_uri parameter. 
The target of the URL is a JWT which is a :term:`OpenID Request Object`. 
The scheme used in the request_uri value MUST be HTTPS, 
unless the target JWT is signed in a way that is verifiable by the Authorization server. 
The :term:`request_uri` value MUST be reachable by the :term:`Authorization Server`, 
and SHOULD be reachable by the :term:`Client`.

All :term:`Authorization Request` parameters 
that are part of the :term:`Authorization Request` 
excluding the request parameter MUST also be JSON Serialized 
into the :term:`OpenID Request Object` with the same values. 
This allows the :term:`Client` to send signed and/or encrypted requests 
to the :term:`Authorization Server` and maintain conformance to :term:`OAuth 2.0`. 
The :term:`OpenID Request Object` MAY be signed and encrypted 
via JWS [:term:`JWS`] and JWE [:term:`JWE`] respectively, 
thereby providing authentication, integrity, non-repudiation and/or confidentiality.

Following is a non-normative example of a :term:`Request File`. 
Note that the line wraps within the values are for display purpose only:

::

    eyJ0eXAiOiJKV1QiLCJhbGciOiJIUzI1NiJ9.eyJyZXNwb25zZV90eXBlIjoiY29kZSBpZF9
    0b2tlbiIsImNsaWVudF9pZCI6InM2QmhkUmtxdDMiLCJyZWRpcmVjdF91cmkiOiJodHRwczp
    cL1wvY2xpZW50LmV4YW1wbGUuY29tXC9jYiIsInNjb3BlIjoib3BlbmlkIHByb2ZpbGUiLCJ
    zdGF0ZSI6ImFmMGlmanNsZGtqIiwidXNlcmluZm8iOnsiY2xhaW1zIjp7Im5hbWUiOm51bGw
    sIm5pY2tuYW1lIjp7Im9wdGlvbmFsIjp0cnVlfSwiZW1haWwiOm51bGwsInZlcmlmaWVkIjp
    udWxsLCJwaWN0dXJlIjp7Im9wdGlvbmFsIjp0cnVlfX0sImZvcm1hdCI6InNpZ25lZCJ9LCJ
    pZF90b2tlbiI6eyJtYXhfYWdlIjo4NjQwMCwiaXNvMjkxMTUiOiIyIn19.2OiqRgrbrHkA1F
    Z5p_7bc_RSdTbH-wo_Agk-ZRpD3wY

(draft 07)
