1.4. Access Token
---------------------------

Access tokens are credentials used to access protected resources.  
An access token is a string representing an authorization issued to the client.  
The string is usually opaque to the client.  
Tokens represent specific scopes and durations of access, 
granted by the resource owner, 
and enforced by the resource server and authorization server.

.. note::

    - credentials for protected resources
    - scope
    - duration
    - granted by resource owner
    - enforced by resource server & authorization server 

The token may denote an identifier used to retrieve the authorization
information or may self-contain the authorization information in a
verifiable manner (i.e., a token string consisting of some data and a
signature).  Additional authentication credentials, which are beyond
the scope of this specification, may be required in order for the
client to use a token.

.. note::
    
    - may identifer to information
    - may contains authorization information

The access token provides an abstraction layer, replacing different
authorization constructs (e.g., username and password) with a single
token understood by the resource server.  This abstraction enables
issuing access tokens more restrictive than the authorization grant
used to obtain them, as well as removing the resource server's need
to understand a wide range of authentication methods.

.. note::

    - issuing token is more restrictive than authorization grant

Access tokens can have different formats, structures, and methods of
utilization (e.g., cryptographic properties) based on the resource
server security requirements.  Access token attributes and the
methods used to access protected resources are beyond the scope of
this specification and are defined by companion specifications such as :term:`[RFC6750]`.



(http://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc6749.html#section-1.4 )
