10.12.  Cross-Site Request Forgery
------------------------------------------

   Cross-site request forgery (CSRF) is an exploit in which an attacker
   causes the user-agent of a victim end-user to follow a malicious URI
   (e.g., provided to the user-agent as a misleading link, image, or
   redirection) to a trusting server (usually established via the
   presence of a valid session cookie).

   A CSRF attack against the client's redirection URI allows an attacker
   to inject its own authorization code or access token, which can
   result in the client using an access token associated with the
   attacker's protected resources rather than the victim's (e.g., save
   the victim's bank account information to a protected resource
   controlled by the attacker).

   The client MUST implement CSRF protection for its redirection URI.
   This is typically accomplished by requiring any request sent to the
   redirection URI endpoint to include a value that binds the request to
   the user-agent's authenticated state (e.g., a hash of the session
   cookie used to authenticate the user-agent).  The client SHOULD
   utilize the "state" request parameter to deliver this value to the
   authorization server when making an authorization request.

   Once authorization has been obtained from the end-user, the
   authorization server redirects the end-user's user-agent back to the
   client with the required binding value contained in the "state"
   parameter.  The binding value enables the client to verify the
   validity of the request by matching the binding value to the
   user-agent's authenticated state.  The binding value used for CSRF
   protection MUST contain a non-guessable value (as described in
   Section 10.10), and the user-agent's authenticated state (e.g.,
   session cookie, HTML5 local storage) MUST be kept in a location
   accessible only to the client and the user-agent (i.e., protected by
   same-origin policy).

   A CSRF attack against the authorization server's authorization
   endpoint can result in an attacker obtaining end-user authorization
   for a malicious client without involving or alerting the end-user.

   The authorization server MUST implement CSRF protection for its
   authorization endpoint and ensure that a malicious client cannot
   obtain authorization without the awareness and explicit consent of
   the resource owner.


( https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc6749.html#section-10.12 )
