10.1.  Client Authentication
----------------------------------------

   The authorization server establishes client credentials with web
   application clients for the purpose of client authentication.  The
   authorization server is encouraged to consider stronger client
   authentication means than a client password.  Web application clients
   MUST ensure confidentiality of client passwords and other client
   credentials.

   The authorization server MUST NOT issue client passwords or other
   client credentials to native application or user-agent-based
   application clients for the purpose of client authentication.  The
   authorization server MAY issue a client password or other credentials
   for a specific installation of a native application client on a
   specific device.

   When client authentication is not possible, the authorization server
   SHOULD employ other means to validate the client's identity -- for
   example, by requiring the registration of the client redirection URI
   or enlisting the resource owner to confirm identity.  A valid
   redirection URI is not sufficient to verify the client's identity
   when asking for resource owner authorization but can be used to
   prevent delivering credentials to a counterfeit client after
   obtaining resource owner authorization.

   The authorization server must consider the security implications of
   interacting with unauthenticated clients and take measures to limit
   the potential exposure of other credentials (e.g., refresh tokens)
   issued to such clients.

( https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc6749.html#section-10.1 )
