10.6.  Authorization Code Redirection URI Manipulation
---------------------------------------------------------------

   When requesting authorization using the authorization code grant
   type, the client can specify a redirection URI via the "redirect_uri"
   parameter.  If an attacker can manipulate the value of the
   redirection URI, it can cause the authorization server to redirect
   the resource owner user-agent to a URI under the control of the
   attacker with the authorization code.

   An attacker can create an account at a legitimate client and initiate
   the authorization flow.  When the attacker's user-agent is sent to
   the authorization server to grant access, the attacker grabs the
   authorization URI provided by the legitimate client and replaces the
   client's redirection URI with a URI under the control of the
   attacker.  The attacker then tricks the victim into following the
   manipulated link to authorize access to the legitimate client.

   Once at the authorization server, the victim is prompted with a
   normal, valid request on behalf of a legitimate and trusted client,
   and authorizes the request.  The victim is then redirected to an
   endpoint under the control of the attacker with the authorization
   code.  The attacker completes the authorization flow by sending the
   authorization code to the client using the original redirection URI
   provided by the client.  The client exchanges the authorization code
   with an access token and links it to the attacker's client account,
   which can now gain access to the protected resources authorized by
   the victim (via the client).

   In order to prevent such an attack, the authorization server MUST
   ensure that the redirection URI used to obtain the authorization code
   is identical to the redirection URI provided when exchanging the
   authorization code for an access token.  The authorization server
   MUST require public clients and SHOULD require confidential clients
   to register their redirection URIs.  If a redirection URI is provided
   in the request, the authorization server MUST validate it against the
   registered value.

( https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc6749.html#section-10.6 )
