11.3. The OAuth Authorization Endpoint Response Type Registry
------------------------------------------------------------------------

This specification establishes the OAuth authorization endpoint
response type registry.

Additional response type for use with the authorization endpoint are
registered on the advice of one or more Designated Experts (appointed
by the IESG or their delegate), with a Specification Required (using
terminology from [RFC5226]).  However, to allow for the allocation of
values prior to publication, the Designated Expert(s) may approve
registration once they are satisfied that such a specification will
be published.

Registration requests should be sent to the [TBD]@ietf.org mailing
list for review and comment, with an appropriate subject (e.g.,
"Request for response type: example"). [[ Note to RFC-EDITOR: The
name of the mailing list should be determined in consultation with
the IESG and IANA.  Suggested name: oauth-ext-review. ]]

Within at most 14 days of the request, the Designated Expert(s) will
either approve or deny the registration request, communicating this
decision to the review list and IANA.  Denials should include an
explanation and, if applicable, suggestions as to how to make the
request successful.

Decisions (or lack thereof) made by the Designated Expert(s) can be
first appealed to Application Area Directors (contactable using
app-ads@tools.ietf.org email address or directly by looking up their
email addresses on http://www.iesg.org/ website) and, if the
appellant is not satisfied with the response, to the full IESG (using
the iesg@iesg.org mailing list).

IANA should only accept registry updates from the Designated
Expert(s), and should direct all requests for registration to the
review mailing list.

(v.22)
