3.1. Authorization Endpoint
---------------------------------------

.. note::
    - verify resource owner identity
    - Discovery of the endpoint
    - POST or GET
    - TLS
    - Paremeters

The :term:`authorization endpoint` is used to interact 
with the :term:`resource owner` and obtain an :term:`authorization grant`.  

The authorization server MUST first verify the identity of the resource owner.  
The way in which the authorization server authenticates the resource owner
(e.g., username and password login, session cookies) 
is beyond the scope of this specification.

The means through which the client obtains the location of 
the authorization endpoint are beyond the scope of this specification,
but the location is typically provided in the service documentation.

The endpoint URI MAY include an "**application/x-www-form-urlencoded**"
formatted (per Appendix B) :term:`query component` 
(:term:`[RFC3986]` :ref:`Section 3.4 <oauth.3.4>`),
which MUST be retained when adding additional query parameters.  
The endpoint URI MUST NOT include a fragment component.

Since requests to the authorization endpoint result in user authentication 
and the transmission of clear-text credentials 
(in the HTTP response), 
the authorization server MUST require the use of TLS 
as described in :ref:`Section 1.6 <oauth.1.6>` 
when sending requests to the authorization endpoint.

The authorization server MUST support the use of the HTTP "GET"
method :term:`[RFC2616]` for the authorization endpoint and 
MAY support the use of the "POST" method as well.

Parameters sent without a value MUST be treated 
as if they were omitted from the request.  
The authorization server MUST ignore unrecognized request parameters.  
Request and response parameters MUST NOT be included more than once.

( http://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc6749.html#section-3.1 )
