.. _oauth.token_endpoint:

3.2. Token Endpoint
-----------------------------------

.. note::
    - access token  <- code /refresh token 
    - discovery
    - NO fragment
    - TLS

The token endpoint is used by the client to obtain an :term:`access token` by
presenting its :term:`authorization grant` or :term:`refresh token`.  
The token endpoint is used with every authorization grant except for the
implicit grant type (since an access token is issued directly).

The means through which the client obtains the location of the 
token endpoint are beyond the scope of this specification, 
but the location is typically provided in the service documentation.

The endpoint URI MAY include an "**application/x-www-form-urlencoded**"
formatted (per Appendix B) query component ([RFC3986] Section 3.4),
which MUST be retained when adding additional query parameters.  
The endpoint URI MUST NOT include a fragment component.

Since requests to the token endpoint result in 
the transmission of clear-text credentials 
(in the HTTP request and response), 
the authorization server MUST require the use of TLS as described in Section 1.6 
when sending requests to the token endpoint.

The client MUST use the HTTP "POST" method when making access token requests.

Parameters sent without a value MUST be treated 
as if they were omitted from the request.  
The authorization server MUST ignore unrecognized request parameters.  
Request and response parameters MUST NOT be included more than once.

( http://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc6749.html#section-3.2 )
