3.3. Access Token Scope
---------------------------------------

The authorization and token endpoints allow the client to specify the
scope of the access request using the "scope" request parameter.  In
turn, the authorization server uses the "scope" response parameter to
inform the client of the scope of the access token issued.

The value of the scope parameter is expressed as a list of space-
delimited, case-sensitive strings.  The strings are defined by the
authorization server.  If the value contains multiple space-delimited
strings, their order does not matter, and each string adds an
additional access range to the requested scope.

::

     scope       = scope-token *( SP scope-token )
     scope-token = 1*( %x21 / %x23-5B / %x5D-7E )

.. note::

    .. code-block:: python

        >>> chr(0x21)
        '!'

        >>> for i in range(0x23,0x5B+1):
        ...    print chr(i),
        ... 
        # $ % & ' ( ) * + , - . / 
        0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 
        : ; < = > ? @ 
        A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z [  


        >>> for i in range(0x5D,0x7E+1):
        ...    print chr(i),
        ... 
        ] ^ _ ` 
        a b c d e f g h i j k l m n o p q r s t u v w x y z 
        { | } ~

The authorization server MAY fully 
or partially ignore the scope requested by the client, 
based on the authorization server policy or
the resource owner's instructions.  

.. note::

    - Scope Policy on Authorizaton Server

If the issued access token scope is different from the one requested by the client, 
the authorization server MUST include the "scope" response parameter 
to inform the client of the actual scope granted.

.. note::

    - cases where "scope" MUST be returned

If the client omits the scope parameter when requesting
authorization, the authorization server MUST either process the
request using a pre-defined default value 
or fail the request indicating an invalid scope.  
The authorization server SHOULD document its scope requirements 
and default value (if defined).

.. note::

    - Supporting Scopes Advertisement

( http://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc6749.html#section-3.3 )
