3.1. Authorization Endpoint
------------------------------

.. glossary::

    Authorization Endpoint
        The authorization endpoint is used to interact with the resource owner and obtain an authorization grant.  


The authorization server MUST first verify the identity of the resource owner.  
The way in which the authorization server authenticates the resource owner 
(e.g.  username and password login, session cookies) 
is beyond the scope of this specification.

The means through which the client obtains the location of the
authorization endpoint are beyond the scope of this specification but
the location is typically provided in the service documentation.

The endpoint URI MAY include an "application/x-www-form-urlencoded"
formatted ([W3C.REC-html401-19991224]) query component ([RFC3986]
section 3.4), which MUST be retained when adding additional query
Since requests to the authorization endpoint result in user
authentication and the transmission of clear-text credentials (in the
HTTP response), the authorization server MUST require the use of a
transport-layer security mechanism when sending requests to the
authorization endpoint.  The authorization server MUST support TLS
1.0 ([RFC2246]), SHOULD support TLS 1.2 ([RFC5246]) and its future
replacements, and MAY support additional transport-layer mechanisms
meeting its security requirements.

The authorization server MUST support the use of the HTTP "GET"
method [RFC2616] for the authorization endpoint, and MAY support the
use of the "POST" method as well.

Parameters sent without a value MUST be treated as if they were
omitted from the request.  The authorization server SHOULD ignore
unrecognized request parameters.  Request and response parameters
MUST NOT be included more than once.
