3.2. Token Endpoint
------------------------

.. glossary::

    Token Endpoint
        Endpoint to issue tokens.

The :term:`token endpoint` is used by the :term:`client` 
to obtain an :term:`access token` 
by presenting its :term:`authorization grant` or :term:`refresh token`.  

.. note::
   Confidential clients' credential can be a  authorization grant. See ":ref:`oauth_4_4`".

The :term:`token endpoint` is used with every :term:`authorization grant` 
except for the :term:`implicit grant` type 
(since an :term:`access token` is issued directly).

.. note::
    Directly at :term:`Autorization Endpoint`

The means through which the client obtains 
the location of the :term:`token endpoint` are beyond the scope of this specification 
but is typically provided in the service documentation.

.. note::
    Discovery

The endpoint URI MAY include an "application/x-www-form-urlencoded" formatted 
([:term:`W3C.REC-html401-19991224`]) :term:`query component` ([:term:`RFC3986`] section 3.4), 
which MUST be retained when adding additional query parameters.  
The endpoint URI MUST NOT include a fragment component.

.. note::
    No fragment to URI

Since requests to the :term:`token endpoint` result in 
the transmission of clear-text credentials 
(in the HTTP request and response), 
the :term:`authorization server` MUST require TLS as described in :ref:`Section 1.6 <oauth_1_6>`
when sending requests to the token endpoint.

The client MUST use the HTTP "**POST**" method when making access token requests.

Parameters sent without a value MUST be treated as 
if they were omitted from the request.  
The :term:`authorization server` MUST ignore unrecognized request parameters.  
Request and response parameters MUST NOT be included more than once.

(v.23 http://tools.ietf.org/html/draft-ietf-oauth-v2-23#section-3.2)
