3.  JSON Web Key (JWK) Format
====================================================


A JSON Web Key (JWK) is a JSON object.  
The members of the object represent properties of the key, 
including its value.  
This document defines the key parameters 
that are not algorithm specific, 
and thus common to many keys.

.. note::
    - アルゴリズム依存の部分はこのスペックでは扱わない

In addition to the common parameters, 
each JWK will have members that are specific 
to the kind of key being represented.  

These members represent the parameters of the key.  
:ref:`Section 6 of the JSON Web Algorithms <jwa.6>` 
(:doc:`JWA <jwa>`) :term:`[JWA]` specification defines 
multiple kinds of cryptographic keys and their associated members.

.. note::
    - :doc:`jwa` 観てください


The member names within a JWK MUST be unique; 
recipients MUST either reject JWKs with duplicate member names 
or use a JSON parser that returns only the lexically last duplicate member name, 
as specified in Section 15.12 (The JSON Object) of ECMAScript 5.1 :term:`[ECMAScript]`.

Additional members can be present in the JWK; 
if not understood by implementations encountering them, 
they MUST be ignored.  

.. note::
    - メンバーを追加してもいいが、わからなかったら無視

Member names used for representing key parameters 
for different keys types need not be distinct.  

Any new member name should either be registered 
in the :term:`IANA JSON Web Key Parameters` registry defined in
:ref:`Section 7.1 <jwk.7.1>` 
or be a value that contains a :term:`Collision-Resistant Name`.

(draft21)
