.. _jwk.key_ops:

4.3.  "key_ops" (Key Operations) Parameter
---------------------------------------------------

.. note::
    - キーオペレーション

The "key_ops" (key operations) member identifies the operations(s)
that the key is intended to be used for.  The "key_ops" parameter is
intended for use cases in which public, private, or symmetric keys
may be present.

Its value is an array of key operation values.  Values defined by
this specification are:

   -  "sign" (compute signature or MAC)

   -  "verify" (verify signature or MAC)

   -  "encrypt" (encrypt content)

   -  "decrypt" (decrypt content and validate decryption, if applicable)

   -  "wrapKey" (encrypt key)

   -  "unwrapKey" (decrypt key and validate decryption, if applicable)

   -  "deriveKey" (derive key)

   -  "deriveBits" (derive bits not to be used as a key)

(Note that the "key_ops" values intentionally match the "KeyUsage"
values defined in the Web Cryptography API [WebCrypto]
specification.)

.. note::
    - wrap -> wrapKey
    - unwrap -> unwrapKey

Other values MAY be used.  Key operation values can be registered in
the IANA JSON Web Key Operations registry defined in Section 7.3.
The key operation values are case-sensitive strings.  Duplicate key
operation values MUST NOT be present in the array.

Use of the "key_ops" member is OPTIONAL, unless the application
requires its presence.

Multiple unrelated key operations SHOULD NOT be specified for a key
because of the potential vulnerabilities associated with using the
same key with multiple algorithms.  Thus, the combinations "sign"
with "verify", "encrypt" with "decrypt", and "wrapKey" with "unwrapKey" are
permitted, but other combinations SHOULD NOT be used.

The ":ref:`use`" and ":ref:`key_ops`" JWK members SHOULD NOT be used together.
Applications should specify which of these members they use, 
if either is to be used by the application.

(draft21)
(http://tools.ietf.org/html/draft-ietf-jose-json-web-key-21#section-3.3)
