Appendix E.  Acknowledgements
====================================

Solutions for signing and encrypting JSON content were previously
explored by Magic Signatures [MagicSignatures], JSON Simple Sign
[JSS], Canvas Applications [CanvasApp], JSON Simple Encryption [JSE],
and JavaScript Message Security Format [I-D.rescorla-jsms], all of
which influenced this draft.

The Authenticated Encryption with AES-CBC and HMAC-SHA
[I-D.mcgrew-aead-aes-cbc-hmac-sha2] specification, upon which the
AES_CBC_HMAC_SHA2 algorithms are based, was written by David A.
McGrew and Kenny Paterson.  The test cases for AES_CBC_HMAC_SHA2 are
based upon those for [I-D.mcgrew-aead-aes-cbc-hmac-sha2] by John
Foley.

Matt Miller wrote Using JavaScript Object Notation (JSON) Web
Encryption (JWE) for Protecting JSON Web Key (JWK) Objects
[I-D.miller-jose-jwe-protected-jwk], which the password-based
encryption content of this draft is based upon.

This specification is the work of the JOSE Working Group, which
includes dozens of active and dedicated participants.  In particular,
the following individuals contributed ideas, feedback, and wording
that influenced this specification:

Dirk Balfanz, Richard Barnes, John Bradley, Brian Campbell, Breno de
Medeiros, Yaron Y. Goland, Dick Hardt, Jeff Hodges, Edmund Jay, James
Manger, Matt Miller, Tony Nadalin, Axel Nennker, John Panzer,
Emmanuel Raviart, Nat Sakimura, Jim Schaad, Hannes Tschofenig, and
Sean Turner.

Jim Schaad and Karen O'Donoghue chaired the JOSE working group and
Sean Turner and Stephen Farrell served as Security area directors
during the creation of this specification.

( https://tools.ietf.org/html/draft-ietf-jose-json-web-algorithms-14#appendix-E )
