1.1.2.2. The SCORM Sequencing and Navigation Book
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The :doc:`SCORM SN book <scorm_sn>` is based 
on the IMS Simple Sequencing (:term:`SS`) Specification Version 1.0, 
which defines a method for representing the intended behavior 
of an authored learning experience 
such that any SCORM compliant LMS will sequence discrete learning activities in a consistent way.

The SCORM SN Model defines 
how IMS SS applies and is extended in a SCORM environment. 

It defines the required behaviors and functionality 
that SCORM compliant LMSs must implement to process sequencing information at run-time. 

More specifically, 
it describes the **branching** and **flow** of learning activities 
in terms of an :term:`activity tree`,
based on the results of a learner’s interactions with launched content objects and an authored sequencing strategy. 

An activity tree is a conceptual structure of learning activities managed by the LMS for each learner.

The SCORM SN book describes how learner-initiated and system-initiated navigation events 
can be triggered and processed, 
resulting in the identification of learning activities for delivery. 

Each learning activity identified for delivery will have an associated content object. 

The SCORM RTE book describes how identified content objects are launched. 

The sequence of launched content objects, 
for a given learner and content structure, provides a learning experience 
(learner interaction with content objects); 
the SCORM RTE model describes 
how the LMS manages the resulting learning experience and 
how that learning experience may affect the :term:`activity tree`.

Various concepts described in the SCORM CAM book have 
relationships to the :doc:`SCORM SN book <scorm_cam>`. 

The SCORM CAM describes how to build sequencing information and 
represent that information in Extensible Markup Language (XML). 

The SCORM CAM then describes how to build onto the existing manifest 
to apply the sequencing information. 

The :doc:`SCORM SN book <scorm_sn>` contains more details 
on the relationship between the XML binding of 
the sequencing information and the processes and behaviors of that information.
