1.1. Introduction to the SCORM Content Aggregation Model (CAM) Book
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The SCORM Content Aggregation Model (:term:`CAM`) book describes 
the components used in a learning experience, 
how to package those components for exchange from system to system, 
how to describe those components to enable search and discovery and 
how to define sequencing information for the components. 

The SCORM CAM promotes the consistent storage, labeling, 
packaging, exchange and discovery of learning content.

Several key concepts are introduced in the SCORM CAM book. 

The book describes responsibilities and requirements 
for building content and content organizations 
(e.g., course, lessons, modules, etc.). 

It contains information on creating content packages, 
applying metadata to the components in the content package 
and applying sequencing and navigation details 
in the context of a content package. 

SCORM content packaging, as described in this book, 
provides a consistent form for describing content structures, 
learning content, 
the metadata that describes the various components of the content structures and 
sequencing and navigation rules. 

This consistency facilitates searching and discovering content packages 
and their resources 
(helping facilitate reuse of SCORM compliant content), 
building content organizations that will behave in a similar manner from system to system, and understanding the contents of the content package. General subjects discussed include:

• Content Model: Definition of common terminology used in the CAM book.
• Content Packaging: Descriptions and requirements for aggregating and bundling learning content.
• Metadata: Descriptions and requirements for describing SCORM components.
• Sequencing and Navigation: Descriptions and requirements for defining sequencing and navigation information.

