1.1.1. Using the SCORM CAM Book
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

This book will assist 
authoring tool vendors, 
content developers, and 
anyone else wishing to create, edit, or use:

• SCORM content model **components** 
  (assets, Sharable Content Objects (SCOs), activities, content organizations and content aggregations)
• SCORM content **packages** 
  (with or without sequencing and navigation information)
• **Metadata**

Requirement definitions throughout the book describe 
how to create, edit, or use content
packages, metadata, and content model components.

Early portions of this book, 
:ref:`Section 1 <scorm_cam.1>`: The SCORM® Content Aggregation Model (CAM) Overview 
through :ref:`Section 2 <scorm_cam.2>`: The SCORM® Content Model, 
cover general SCORM CAM-related concepts. 

These sections are recommended reading 
for those seeking an introduction to the concepts behind the SCORM CAM 
and who may not wish to delve into its technical details. 

Others who may find these sections useful include 
those wishing to learn about updates to the SCORM CAM. 

:ref:`Section 2.1.3 <scorm_cam.2.1.3>`: Content Organization, for instance, 
discusses how Activities affect the SCORM CAM.

:ref:`Section 3 <scorm_cam.3>`: SCORM® Content Packaging is 
the first section of this book providing technical details specific to the CAM. 

It describes **manifests**, **content packages**, 
SCORM **content aggregation content package application** profile, 
SCORM **resource content package application** profile and 
best practices and practical guidelines. 

This section covers not only the technical details 
about the various individual components of SCORM content packages, 
but it also covers how to assemble content packages, 
showing code illustrations of manifests with explanations.

:ref:`Section 4 <scorm_cam.4>`: Metadata covers 
all aspects of creating **metadata** for labeling purposes, 
to include Learning Object Metadata (:term:`LOM`) 
Extensible Markup Language (XML) validation approaches 
and metadata extensions. 

The section also describes how to associate metadata 
to SCORM content model components in a content package.

:ref:`Section 5 <scorm_cam.5>`: SCORM® Sequencing and Navigation 
covers ways in which the introduction of **sequencing** and **navigation** information affects the SCORM CAM. 

The section also outlines how to build sequencing and navigation information 
in XML and how to place those rules in a content package manifest. 

The section describes the requirements for building XML 
that represents the desired sequencing strategies.
