1.1.2.1. The SCORM Run-Time Environment Book
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The purpose of the SCORM RTE :doc:`book <scorm_rte>` 
is to provide a means for **interoperability** between SCOs and LMSs. 

SCORM provides a means for learning content to be interoperable 
across multiple LMSs 
regardless of the tools used to create the content. 

For this to be possible, 
there must be a common way to launch content, 
a common way for content to communicate with an LMS and predefined data elements 
that are exchanged between an LMS and content during its execution. 

The three components of the SCORM RTE are defined in this document as :term:`Launch`, 
Application Program Interface (API) and Data Model. 

.. note::
    1. Launch
    2. API
    3. Data Model

The technical details of these elements are described in the SCORM RTE book, 
but a brief overview of each of these elements of the RTE follows.

Launch includes defining the relationship between LMSs and SCORM content 
such that all SCORM compliant content is dependant upon a SCORM compliant LMS 
to be delivered and displayed to the learner. 

In addition, 
LMSs have the responsibility to determine which SCORM content is to be delivered next. 

These new responsibilities, described in the :doc:`SCORM SN book <scorm_sn>`, 
are also touched on in the SCORM RTE book.


The SCORM API, as described in the :doc:`SCORM RTE book <scorm_rte>`, 
provides a set of predefined methods that are agreed upon by 
both LMS vendors and content authoring tool vendors 
to be made available for purposes of communication 
between an LMS and the SCOs it launches. 

These functions complete the launch process by providing 
a means to establish a “**handshake**” 
between the SCO and the LMS that launched it, 
and to break that handshake when the learning session with the SCO is terminated. 

In addition, 
they provide the means for SCORM content to “set” and “get” data on the LMS, 
such as assessment results, 
and to check for and warn the user about any errors that may occur during these processes.


The SCORM RTE Data Model, 
as described in the SCORM RTE book, 
provides the data elements that can be used to “**get**” and “**set**” data 
from and to an LMS. 

For instance, 
when passing a **test score** from a learner, 
a SCO would use the SCORM RTE Data Model element known as :term:`cmi.score.scaled` 
to inform the LMS how a user performed in the test. 

This and all other SCORM Run-Time Environment Data Model elements 
are described in detail in the :doc:`SCORM RTE book <scorm_rte>`.

Various concepts described in the SCORM CAM book have impacts on the SCORM RTE. 

Data defined in a content package manifest impact some initial values 
for some of the SCORM Run-Time Environment Data Model elements. 

Data from the manifest is used in the process of 
delivering and launching content to the learner and impacts the run-time environment. 

These and other relationships are described throughout the CAM.

