1.2. The SCORM Content Aggregation Model
---------------------------------------------------

The SCORM CAM represents a learning-taxonomy neutral means 
for **designers** and **implementers** of instruction 
to aggregate learning resources 
for the purpose of delivering a desired learning experience. 

A learning resource is any representation of information 
that is used in a learning experience. 

Learning experiences consist of activities 
that are supported by electronic or non-electronic learning resources.

One activity in the process of creating and delivering learning experiences 
involves the creation, discovery, and gathering together, or aggregation, 
of simple assets into more complex learning resources 
and then organizing the resources into a predefined sequence of delivery. 

The SCORM CAM supports this process 
and is made up of the following:

• Content Model: 

  Nomenclature(用語体系) defining the content components 
  of a learning experience.

• Content Packaging: 

  Defines how to represent the intended behavior 
  of a learning experience (content structure) 
  and how to aggregate activities of learning resources 
  for movement between different environments (content packaging).

• Metadata: 

  A mechanism for describing specific instances 
  of the components of the content model.

• Sequencing and Navigation: 

  A rule-based model for defining a set of rules 
  that describes the intended sequence and ordering of activities. 

  The activities may or may not reference learning resources 
  to be delivered to the learner.
