3.1. Content Packaging Overview
--------------------------------

Once :term:`learning content` is designed and built, 
there is a need to make the content available to learners, 
authoring tools, repositories or LMSs. 

The IMS Content Packaging Specification was designed 
to provide a standard way 
to structure and exchange learning content.

The purpose of the content package 
is to provide a standardized way to exchange learning content 
between different systems or tools. 

The content package also provides a place 
for describing the structure (or organization) 
and the intended behavior of a collection of learning content.

Content packages are expected to be used 
to move learning content or collections of learning content 
between LMSs, development tools and content repositories. 

The IMS Content Packaging Specification provides 
a common “input/output” format that any system can support.

SCORM Content Packaging is a set of specific requirements and guidance, 
or application profiles, of the IMS Content Packaging Specification. 

SCORM Content Packages adheres strictly to the IMS Content Packaging Specification 
and provides additional explicit requirements and implementation guidance 
for packaging assets, SCOs and content organization.


This section is organized as follows:

- :ref:`Section 3.2 <scorm_cam.3.2>`: 

  Content Package Components defines the **key concepts** 
  that deal with a content package. 

  These key concepts are useful 
  for getting a base understanding of a content package 
  before describing the specific requirements.

- :ref:`Section 3.3 <scorm_cam.3.3>`: 

  Components of a Manifest defines the **makeup** 
  of a content package :term:`manifest`. 

  The manifest acts as the “packaging slip” 
  for the content package. 

  It describes the components of the content package.

- :ref:`Section 3.4 <scorm_cam.3.4>`: 

  Building Content Packages defines the **process** 
  of building a content package. 

  The section focuses on the creation of the content package 
  and the manifest file. 

  The section describes the XML components 
  of the manifest and the requirements 
  for using those XML components.

- :ref:`Section 3.5 <scorm_cam.3.5>`: 

  SCORM Content Package Application Profiles defines specifically 
  **how to create SCORM conformant packages** 
  that contain :term:`assets`, :term:`SCOs` and :term:`content organizations`. 

  This section describes the two types of application profiles 
  and the requirements associated with those profiles.

- :ref:`Section 3.6 <scorm_cam.3.6>`: 

  Best Practices and Practical Guidelines defines 
  a collection of best practices and guidelines 
  when building or processing content packages.

