.. _scorm_cam.manifest:

3.2.2. Manifest
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

A :term:`manifest` is an XML document 
that contains a structured inventory of the content of a package. 

If the content package is intended for delivery 
to an end user, 
the manifest also contains information about how the content is organized.

The scope of a manifest is elastic. 

A manifest can describe part of a course 
that can stand by itself outside of the context of a course 
(an “instructional object”), an entire course, a collection of courses, 
or just a collection of content that is to be shipped from one system to another. 

When packaging a collection of courses, 
such a content package would typically have to be disaggregated 
in order to be delivered to learners in a practical LMS run-time system. 

How to do this disaggregation is out of scope with this version of SCORM. 

At this point there is no consensus or standard 
on how to publish a very large or very complex package in a practical LMS, 
because different LMS systems and repositories use different methods 
to represent or store the learning content to deliver to learners.

The general rule is that a package always contains a single top-level :term:`manifest` 
that may contain one or more (sub)manifests. 

The top-level manifest always describes the package. 

Any nested (sub)manifests describe 
the content at the level at which the (sub)manifest is scoped, 
such as course, instructional object or other.

.. note::
    ADL Note: 
    The IMS Global Learning Consortium, Inc., 
    is working on a new version of the IMS Content Packaging Specification. 

    One of the major issues that IMS is resolving deals with (sub)manifests, 
    their use, requirements of use and XML syntax requirements. 

    At this time, 
    ADL recommends not to use (sub)manifests 
    until completion of the IMS work. 

    Any questions, concerns or further recommendations 
    on (sub)manifests should be sent to ADL.


The manifest shall adhere to the following requirements 
(as defined by the IMS Content Packaging Specification):

• The manifest file shall be named :term:`imsmanifest.xml`.

• The imsmanifest.xml and any of its supporting control files 
  (e.g., DTD, XSD) shall be at the root of the content package. 

  If extensions are used to describe organizational 
  defined features and those features are represented in XML, 
  then any and all control files also are required 
  to be at the root of the package. 

  This includes any and all control files 
  needed to validate XML instances including those 
  referenced by the **<adlcp:location>** element.

All requirements defined in the IMS Content Packaging XML Binding Specification, 
any restrictions and additional requirements 
to the IMS binding as defined in :ref:`Section 3.4 <scorm_cam.3.4>`: 
Building Content Packages.

