3.3.2.3.2. Metadata
##############################

When a learning resource is created 
it may be useful to describe the learning resource with metadata. 

It is important to keep in mind 
that not all learning resources may need metadata, 
because the learning resource may not have been built for reuse. 

Sometimes learning resources are developed 
and intended to be used in a specific context. 

Metadata allows the learning resource 
to be found when it is stored in a repository. 

It also makes the learning resource more reusable 
since one can, by inspecting the metadata, 
decide to reuse it without having to actually open 
and inspect the resource itself. 

Such metadata is considered context-independent, 
since it describes the learning resource 
regardless of where it can be found, 
independently of any particular use in the context 
of a specific learning strategy. 

For example, 
imagine a simple SCO that teaches how to thread a needle. 

Metadata describing the SCO might describe the skill to be acquired – 
inserting a thread through the eye of a needle – 
and might further describe 
that a simulation is part of the learning experience. 

This metadata does not, however, 
describe how the needle might be used. 

When the use of a learning resource is defined 
as part of a learning strategy, 
additional metadata may be used 
to describe the activity that uses the resource.

Metadata that is specific to a particular learning strategy 
is called **context-specific metadata** 
and is incorporated in the content organization. 

For example, 
the metadata may include an explanation of 
why that particular activity is inserted 
at that particular place in an instructional sequence.

Context-independent metadata usually 
refers to immutable metadata 
that describes digital assets, 
content objects or collections of objects. 

Context-dependent metadata, on the other hand, 
usually refers to metadata 
that makes sense only in the context of a particular content organization.

Developing and applying metadata to learning resources 
and collections of learning resources is a new concept to many. 

Best practices for doing this have yet to be developed. 

In some cases, 
the principal purpose for metadata is discovery and reuse of content. 

In other cases, 
it is strictly informational and provides authors 
with information about the design and intent of the described learning object 
or item in a content organization. 

Some have theorized that metadata could be provided to learners 
to help them navigate through content. 

No consensus on common usage of metadata has so far emerged, 
but provisions have been made in these specifications 
for a variety of potentially valuable uses of metadata.

If a content package is intended only for delivery to learners, 
and there is no intent to ever reorganize it 
or disaggregate it to reuse its components in another organization, 
adding detailed metadata for each element in the content package 
may be counter-productive, 
since such metadata only makes the content package 
and its manifest more expensive to store, transmit and manage. 

On the other hand, 
if there is any chance that the content package may have to be modified, 
reorganized or disaggregated for reuse at some time in the future, 
then it makes sense to provide metadata 
for every element that might be reused or need to be interpreted. 

In case of doubt, 
past experience with content seems to indicate that 
it is probably best to add metadata, 
even though they may be stripped when a streamline delivery package is required.
