3.3.2.2. Content Organization
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The content organization describes 
how the content of the content package is organized for use. 

In SCORM Version 1.2, 
the only defined use for a content organization was 
as a kind of table of contents 
for the resources in the content package. 

In SCORM 2004, 
the content organization is also used 
as a way to describe a **hierarchy** of :term:`learning activities` 
that exploit the :term:`learning resources`. 

These resources are described in another part of the :term:`manifest`.

The content organization should not be confused 
with the physical structure of the content package, 
or with the structure of the manifest itself. 

For example, 
the files in a content package are often organized in a hierarchy of folders, 
but that structure in itself cannot tell the user of a content package 
how to use the content of the package.

The purpose of the content organization is 
to provide the content developer with the means to specify cohesive units 
of instruction that use collections of learning resources. 

Such a unit of instruction is a hierarchy of learning activities, 
for which specific behaviors and rules may be prescribed 
in such a way that this activity structure 
and the associated behaviors can be reproduced 
in any SCORM conformant LMS environment.

For any activity defined in a content organization, 
the content developer may or may not define specific behaviors and rules. 

In the absence of specific rules, 
the content organization is just a map that can be used to navigate 
at will through the learning resources defined in the content package. 

By adding specific rules and behaviors, 
the content organization becomes a guide that prescribes 
how an LMS must manage the learner’s experience and use of the learning resources.

A content organization can be seen as a structured map of learning resources, 
or a structured activity map to guide the learner through a hierarchy 
of learning activities that use the learning resources. 

One content developer may choose to structure 
the content organization as a table of contents for the learning resources, 
while another content developer may choose to structure 
the content organization as an adaptive guided path through a learning experience, 
invoking learning resources only if and when they are needed. 

A third content developer may create a content organization 
where some discovery activities include a free form use of some of the learning resources, 
while other activities are more formally managed.

An LMS may create its own internal representation 
for a content package and its contents. 

The specification of a content organization in SCORM 
does not imply that LMS systems are required 
to adopt the content organization model 
or to store the package components 
using the same structural organization.

The organization component defined in the IMS Content Packaging Specification 
provides the framework for the information that is required 
to represent the content structure. 

By design, 
the organization component also contains the ability to add, 
for every item in the organization, 
additional information such as metadata or behavior rules and prescriptions. 

SCORM refers to such an organizations component, 
and to what it can represent as the content organization.

The content organization is not an inventory of the actual learning resources, 
and it does not describe those resources. 

The IMS Content Packaging model also provides a clean way 
to inventory and bundle all of the content 
(i.e., physical files) required to deliver the learning resources, 
as well as to identify relationships between files 
that belong to one or more learning resources, 
including externally referenced resources 
that are not contained as physical files within a package. 
