3.3.2.3.3. Sequencing, Adaptive Sequencing and Navigation
#################################################################

Sequencing and navigation refers to the behaviors 
that an LMS must follow in order to present a specific learning experience 
as intended by an author or content developer. 

This learning experience may be free play, 
in which the learner can choose any item 
in the content organization in any order, 
or it may be guided by a flow 
through the structure of the content organization. 

The learning experience can be adaptive, 
with different behaviors that depend on the learner’s performance 
or other variables that can be tracked by the LMS.

SCORM defines a default set of sequencing information 
that governs sequencing and navigation 
for a specific content organization. 

However, 
the default sequencing information only provides for free play. 

Many content developers and instructional designers 
prefer to use specific learning or instructional strategies. 

In those cases, 
the content developer can define specific sequencing information 
that prescribes how an LMS will manage the learning experience.

The sequencing information is associated with the elements 
in the content organization tree and each of these elements represents 
an activity that the learner may engage 
in under control of the sequencing information. 

Application of sequencing information typically results 
in either the launching of a learning resource, 
or a choice the learner must make within the constraints 
defined by the content developer. 

Because the sequencing and navigation information 
is part of the content organization, 
which is itself part of the package manifest, 
the intended behaviors can be embedded in a content package 
in such a form that the package can be used 
to deliver the same learning experience on any SCORM conformant LMS.

SCORM Sequencing and Navigation provides, 
among other things, the ability to define highly adaptive activity sequencing. 

For example, 
it allows for conditional branching to another activity 
depending on whether the learner has completed some task, 
attained an acceptable score or achieved a certain objective. 

Sequencing and navigation information embedded in a content organization 
can prescribe whether and how an LMS may allow the learner 
to use learning resources in the content package, 
based on how other learning resources of the same package have been used in past activities.

In the past, 
CBT authoring tools typically provided custom sequencing and navigation features 
that were encoded in proprietary data formats. 

However, 
new requirements emerged, such as the ability to publish and deploy 
browser-based content through different LMS systems. 

Another requirement was to be able to separate structure 
and instructional strategy logic from the learning resource 
used in implementing the strategy. 

This led to the need to standardize some means 
to define and encode adaptive sequencing and navigation behaviors, 
so that content organizations can be moved, 
used and reused across different LMS environments.

The standardization process for sequencing and navigation 
has proved difficult due to the variety of complex design approaches 
required in order to effectively train certain tasks or prepare learners 
for complex roles or responsibilities. 

Past versions of SCORM provided no specific sequencing capabilities, 
effectively allowing only pure free play, 
because it is a difficult and complex subject 
that required more time to come up with workable solutions. 

There are many, 
and often divergent, requirements in the learning design community. 

No approach has been found to solve all possible use cases. 

However, 
the approach used in SCORM, which is based on the IMS SS Specification, 
is flexible enough to allow a wide variety of learning 
and instructional design approaches.

:ref:`Section 5 <scorm_cam.5>`: 
SCORM Sequencing and Navigation describes 
how the sequencing and navigation rules are embedded 
into the XML representation of content organizations 
in a package manifest, 
in compliance with the IMS SS Specification and SCORM. 

This specification enables robust sequencing and navigation information 
to be associated with content packages 
extending the content organization schema with sequencing prescriptions. 

These prescriptions are based on a common model for expressing rules, 
events and conditions as well as run-time behaviors 
associated with various sequencing and navigation methods.

The IMS SS Specification enables systems 
to deliver learning resources in a predictable manner, 
while reacting consistently to learners’ interactions 
with learning resources. 

The intended approach fosters reusability of learning resources 
by allowing content developers to define sequencing and navigation behavior 
or instructional strategies independently of the actual learning resources. 

The adaptive sequencing information is encoded 
in the content organization, 
allowing learning resources to be reused in multiple contexts 
(i.e., multiple different manifests or organizations, 
each having their own set of sequencing and navigation information).
