3.3.2.2.1. Authoring Content and Content Collections
########################################################

Content organizations provide the means 
to represent the structure of collections of learning resources. 

This is a relatively new approach to designing learning content. 

In the past, 
Computer Based Training (CBT) authoring tools 
provided the means to create parts of a course 
as well as how and when those parts were 
to be presented to the learner. 

The learning resources and the content organization 
were usually inseparable, and developed 
using the same tools and proprietary data formats. 

The shift to Internet-based technologies 
and the notion of building reusable content objects 
changed the authoring process considerably.

Within SCORM, 
it is the LMS that is responsible for delivering the content 
according to the prescriptions embodied in the content organization. 

That means that the LMS must know how and when a designer 
intended the learning resources included in a content package 
to be presented to the learner. 

The content organization, 
which is located in the organizations section of the package manifest, 
allows the designer to provide the LMS with this information. 

This means that authoring a unit of instruction consists of authoring 
or collecting learning resources, 
and also authoring a content organization that uses those learning resources – 
perhaps using completely different authoring tools.

In SCORM, 
there are two distinct products of authoring: 
Authored content organization information, 
which is used as a prescription by the LMS and processed 
during run-time, and authored learning resources, 
which are launched in a browser environment 
as prescribed by the content organization. 

Unlike many older CBT models, 
here the structure is separate from the content. 

The structure is now fully exposed and can be represented 
in a standardized form. 

Content packages can now be delivered in a predictable way, 
to produce comparable learning experiences 
in different LMS environments.
 
