3.4.1.19. <map> Element
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The <map> elemen is the container used to describe how an activity will utilize a specific set of shared data.
XML Namespace: http://www.adlnet.org/xsd/adlcp_v1p3 XML Namespace Prefix: adlcp
XML Binding Representation: <map>
Data Type: The <map> element is a parent element. Parent elements have no values associated with them. Parent elements act as “containers” for other elements/attributes. The <map> element contains the following elements/attributes:

Attributes:

- targetID (required): The identifier of shared data targeted for the mapping. The underlying data type for the targetID, is a unique identifier. Since an empty characterstring does not provide sufficient semantic information to uniquely identify which global shared objective is being targeted, then the targetID attribute cannot be an empty characterstring and cannot contain all whitespace characters (which could be transcribed as an empty characterstring by an XML parser). XMLDataType:xs:anyURI.

- readSharedData (optional, default value = true): This attribute indicates that currently available shared data will be utilized by the activity while it is active. XML Data Type: xs:boolean.

- writeSharedData (optional, default value = true): This attribute indicates that shared data should be persisted (true or false) upon termination ( Terminate(“”) ) of the attempt on the activity. XML Data Type: xs:boolean.

Elements:

- None

Multiplicity: Occurs 1 or more time in the <adlcp:data> element

Example: Code Illustration 3-18: <map> Element

.. code-block:: xml

    <item identifier=”Parent1”>
       <title>Test 1</title>
       <item identifier="ITEM3" 
            identifierref="RESOURCE3" isvisible="true">
          <title>Content 1</title>
          <adlcp:data>
             <adlcp:map targetID = “dataMap1” writeSharedData = “false” />
             <adlcp:map targetID = “dataMap2” />
          </adlcp:data>
       </item>
    </item>


