3.4.1.1. <manifest> Element
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The <manifest> element represents a reusable unit of instruction that encapsulates metadata, organizations and resource references [3]. The <manifest> element is the root element node in the imsmanifest.xml file. Subsequent occurrences of the <manifest> elements inside the root <manifest> are used to compartmentalize files, metadata and organization structure for aggregation, disaggregation and reuse. These child <manifest> elements are referred to as (sub)manifests.

.. note::
    ADL Note: The IMS Global Learning Consortium, Inc., is working on a new version of the IMS Content Packaging Specification. One of the major issues that IMS is resolving deals with (sub)manifests, their use, requirements of use and XML syntax requirements. At this time, ADL recommends not to use (sub)manifests until completion of the IMS work. Any questions, concerns or further recommendations on (sub)manifests should be sent to ADL.

All namespace declarations should be declared inside the <manifest> element. This includes any namespaces that are considered extensions to IMS and ADL. Although this is not considered a requirement, based on the XML specifications, ADL considers this to be a “best practice” and urges vendors and tools to provide this information.



XML Namespace: http://www.imsglobal.org/xsd/imscp_v1p1

XML Namespace Prefix: imscp

XML Binding Representation: <manifest>

SCORM Requirements: 

The manifest element is the root element node for an IMS Manifest. 
The root <manifest> element shall exist 1 and only 1 time.


.. list-table::

    *   - SCORM Content Packaging Application Profile
        - Manifest Multiplicity Requirements

    *   - Aggregation
        - 1 and only 1

    *   - Resource
        - 1 and only 1

Data Type: 

The <manifest> element is a parent element. 
Parent elements have no values associated with them. 
Parent elements act as “containers” for other elements/attributes. 
The<manifest>elementcontainsthefollowingelements/attributes.

Attributes:

- identifier(mandatory): 

  Theattributeidentifiesthemanifest. 
  Theidentifier is unique within the manifest element [3]. 
  The identifier attribute is typically provided 
  by an author or authoring tool 
  during the development of the manifest. XML Data Type: xs:ID.

- version(optional): 

  The version attribute identifies the version of the manifest [3]. 
  It is used to distinguish between manifests with the same identifier. 
  The value has an SPM of 20 characters. 
  XML Data Type: xs:string.

- xml:base(optional): 

  The xml:base attribute provides a relative path offset 
  for the content file(s) contained in the manifest [3]. 

  The usage of this element is defined in the XML Base [7] specification 
  developed by the World Wide Web Consortium (W3C). 
 
  The value has an SPM of 2000 characters. XML Data Type: xs:anyURI.

Elements:

- <metadata>
- <organizations> 
- <resources>
- <manifest>
- <imsss:sequencingCollection>

Example: Code Illustration 3-1: <manifest> Element

.. code-block:: xml

   <manifest identifier="SAMPLE1" version="1.3" xml:base="mycontent"
          xmlns="http://www.imsglobal.org/xsd/imscp_v1p1"
          xmlns:adlcp="http://www.adlnet.org/xsd/adlcp_v1p3"
          xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
          xsi:schemaLocation="http://www.imsglobal.org/xsd/imscp_v1p1
                              imscp_v1p1.xsd
                              http://www.adlnet.org/xsd/adlcp_v1p3
                              adlcp_v1p3.xsd">
   <!-- imsmanifest contents -->
   </manifest>
￼


