3.4.1.5.2. <location> Element
The <location> element provides a means to describe the location where the metadata describing the SCORM Content Model Component may be found. This may be a URI. This is an ADL namespaced element extension to the IMS Content Packaging Specification. The metadata creator has two options for expressing metadata in a Content Package. The creator can either use the <location> element to express the location of the metadata record or place the metadata inline within the manifest file, as described previously. This value is affected by the use of xml:base values. 


Refer to :ref:`Section 3.4.3.1 <scorm_cam.3.4.3.1>`: 
Handling the XML Base Attribute for more information on xml:base usage requirements and guidance.

XML Namespace: http://www.adlnet.org/xsd/adlcp_v1p3
XML Namespace Prefix: adlcp
XML Binding Representation: <location>
SCORM Requirements: SCORM places a requirement that the <adlcp:location> element shall adhere to the following multiplicity requirements:

.. list-table::

    *   - SCORM Content Packaging Application Profile
        - Manifest Multiplicity Requirements

    *   - Content Aggregation
        - 0 or More

    *   - Resource
        - 0 or More

Data Type: The <adlcp:location> element is represented as a characterstring. The characterstring has an SPM of 2000 characters. XML Data Type: xs:string.

Attributes:

- None 

Elements:

- None 

Example: Code Illustration 3-7: <adlcp:location> Element

.. code-block:: xml

    <manifest>
       <metadata>
        <schema>ADL SCORM</schema>
        <schemaversion>2004 4th Edition</schemaversion> 
        <adlcp:location>course/metadata/course.xml</adlcp:location>
       </metadata>
    </manifest>


