3.4.1.7. <organization> Element
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The <organization> element describes a particular hierarchical organization [3]. The content organization is defined by the <organization> element. The content organization is a conceptual term. The content organization can be a lesson, module, course, chapter, etc. What a content organization defines is dependent on an organization’scurriculartaxonomy. The<organization>elementrepresentsan Activity in the terms of IMS SS.
XML Namespace: http://www.imsglobal.org/xsd/imscp_v1p1
XML Namespace Prefix: imscp
XML Binding Representation: <organization>
SCORM Requirements: SCORM places a requirement that all manifests shall adhere to the following multiplicity requirements for the <organization> element:

.. list-table::

    *   - SCORM Content Packaging ￼￼Application Profile
        - Manifest Multiplicity Requirements

    *   - Content Aggregation
        - 1 or More
￼￼￼￼￼￼￼￼
    *   - Resource
        - 0


For Resource Content Packages, this element shall not appear. The <organizations> element (its parent) is required to be empty.
Data Type: The <organization> element is a parent element. Parent elements have no values associated with them. Parent elements act as “containers” for other elements/attributes. The<organization>elementcontainsthefollowing elements/attributes:

Attributes:

- identifier (mandatory): An identifier for the organization that is unique within the manifest file [3]. Typically this value is provided by an author or authoring tool. XMLDataType:xs:ID.

- structure (optional): Describes the shape of the organization. The default value of the structure attribute, if not provided, shall be hierarchical [3]. The value has an SPM of 200 characters. XML Data Type: xs:string.

- adlseq:objectivesGlobalToSystem(optional,default=true): Thisattribute indicates that any mapped global shared objectives defined in sequencing information (refer to Section 5.1.1: <sequencing> Element) are either global to the learner and one experience of a content organization (false) or global for the lifetime of the learner within the LMS (true) across all content organizations. XML Data Type: xs:boolean.

- adlcp:sharedDataGlobalToSystem (optional, default = true): This attribute indicates that any shared data mapped across SCOs (refer to section <adlcp:data> Element) are either global to the learner and one experience of a content organization (false) or global for the lifetime of the learner within the LMS (true). XML Data Type: xs:boolean.

Elements:

- <title>
- <item>
- <metadata>
- <adlcp:completionThreshold> 
- <imsss:sequencing>


Example: Code Illustration 3-9: <organization> Element

.. code-block:: xml

    <organizations>
       <organization identifier="TOC1">
          <title> Introduction to SCORM for LMS Vendors </title>
          <item identifier="ITEM1" identifierref="RESOURCE1" isvisible="true">
             <title>SCORM Run-Time Environment Requirements</title>
          </item>
          <item identifier="ITEM2" identifierref="RESOURCE2" isvisible="true">
             <title>LMS Conformance Requirements</title>
          </item>
       </organization>
    </organizations>
