3.4.1.5.1. Metadata using XML extensions
######################################################

By definition, XML can be extended by introducing elements and attributes from other defined namespaces. Metadata can be inserted into the content package manifest by using this type of XML extension mechanism. There are several ways to add extension elements into an XML document:

1. Defining a namespace in an XML element with a specific prefix. In this method, the specific namespace must be defined using the xmlns:<prefix> syntax in the element. Typically, these prefixes are defined in the root node of an XML element. However, this is not a requirement. The prefix and namespace can be defined in any element, as long as the extended elements are not used prior to the declaration of the namespace (refer to Code Illustration 3-5: Inline Metadata Example – Use of XML Prefix for an example).


Example: Code Illustration 3-5: Inline Metadata Example - Use of XML Prefix

.. code-block:: xml

   <manifest xmlns:lom = "http://ltsc.ieee.org/xsd/LOM"> <metadata>
   <schema>ADL SCORM</schema>
   <schemaversion>2004 4th Edition</schemaversion> 
   <lom:lom>
     <lom:general>
       <lom:title>
          <lom:string language="en-US">Title for the Package</lom:string>
       </lom:title>
     </lom:general>
     <lom:metaMetadata>
       <lom:metadataSchema>LOMv1.0</lom:metadataSchema>
     </lom:metaMetadata>
   </lom:lom>
   </metadata>
   </manifest>


2. Defining a namespace in an XML element without a prefix. In this method, the namespace is defined at the point of use. By using this method, the syntax is stating that the element is from a particular namespace and every child element of this element is also from the namespace (refer to Code Illustration 3-6: Inline Metadata Example – Use of XML Namespace for an example).


Example: Code Illustration 3-6: Inline Metadata Example – Use of XML Namespace

.. code-block:: xml

    <manifest>
       <metadata>
    <schema>ADL SCORM</schema>
    <schemaversion>2004 4th Edition</schemaversion> <lom xmlns="http://ltsc.ieee.org/xsd/LOM">
             <general>
                <title>
                   <string language="en-US">Title for the Package</string>
                </title>
             </general>
             <metaMetadata>
                <metadataSchema>LOMv1.0</metadataSchema>
             </metaMetadata>
    </lom>
       </metadata>
    </manifest>




