3.4.1.13. <timeLimitAction> Element
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. note::
    - :term:`SCO` Activity のみ

The <timeLimitAction> element defines the action 
that should be taken 
when the maximum time allowed in the current attempt 
of the activity is exceeded. 

All time tracking and time limit actions are controlled by the SCO.

This element is an ADL defined extension 
to the IMS Content Packaging Specification. 

The element shall only appear, if needed, 
as a child of a leaf <item> element that 
references a SCO. 

Only those <item> elements that reference a SCO resource 
can contain the <timeLimitAction> element.

The LMS shall use the value of the <timeLimitAction> element, 
if provided, 
to initialize the **cmi.time_limit_action** data model element 
(refer to the :doc:`SCORM RTE book <scorm_rte>` [2]). 

If the content developer defines a time limit action, 
then the SCO is responsible for all behaviors 
based on the time out 
(if the time out occurs).

XML Namespace: http://www.adlnet.org/xsd/adlcp_v1p3
XML Namespace Prefix: adlcp
XML Binding Representation: <timeLimitAction>
SCORM Requirements: SCORM places a requirement that all manifests shall adhere to the following multiplicity requirements for the <timeLimitAction> element:

.. list-table::

    *   - SCORM Content Packaging Application Profile
        - Manifest Multiplicity Requirements

    *   - Content Aggregation
        - 0 or 1

    *   - Resource
        - 0


For Resource Content Packages, this element shall not appear. The <organizations> element is required to be empty.
Data Type: The <timeLimitAction> element is represented as a characterstring. The characterstring is required to be one of following set of restricted characterstring tokens:

- exit,message: 

  The learner should be forced to exit the SCO. The SCO should provide a message to the learner indicating that the maximum time allowed for the learner attempt was exceeded.

- exit,no message: 

  The learner should be forced to exit the SCO with no message.

- continue,message: 

  The learner should be allowed to continue in the SCO. The SCO should provide a message to the learner indicating that the maximum time allowed for the learner attempt was exceeded.

- continue,no message: 

  Although the learner has exceeded the maximum time allowed for the learner attempt, the learner should be given no message and should not be forced to exit the SCO.

If this feature is used within the SCO, 
the SCO shall keep track of the time affecting this timeout period 
and provide the informative message indicating the timeout 
(if appropriate).


Example: Code Illustration 3-14: <timeLimitAction> Element

.. code-block:: xml

    <organization>
       <item identifier="ITEM3" 
             identifierref="RESOURCE3" isvisible="true">
          <title>Content 1</title>
          <adlcp:timeLimitAction>exit,no message</adlcp:timeLimitAction>
       </item>
    </organization>


