3.4.1.15. <completionThreshold> Element
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The <completionThreshold> element enables 
the definition of a threshold value to be applied 
when evaluating an activty’s completion status. 

It also provides a means to designate 
the degree of contribution (weight) the activity’s completion 
imposes relative to its siblings. 

This element is an ADL defined extension to the IMS Content Packaging Specification. 

The element shall only appear, if needed, as a child of an <organization> element or <item> element.

XML Namespace: http://www.adlnet.org/xsd/adlcp_v1p3
XML Namespace Prefix: adlcp
XML Binding Representation: <completionThreshold>
SCORM Requirements: SCORM places a requirement that all manifests shall adhere to the following multiplicity requirements for the <completionThreshold> element:

.. list-table::

    *   - SCORM Content Packaging Application Profile
        - Manifest Multiplicity Requirements

    *   - Content Aggregation
        - 0 or 1

    *   - Resource
        - 0

For Resource Content Packages, this element shall not appear. The <organizations> element is required to be empty.
Data Type: The <completionThreshold> element is a parent element. Parent elements have no values associated with them. Parent elements act as “containers” for other
elements/attributes. 

The <completionThreshold> element contains the following elements/attributes:

- completedByMeasure (optional, default value = false): This attribute indicates whether the minProgressMeasure attribute’s data value shall be used in place of any other method to determine if the activity is completed [5]. XML Data Type: xs:boolean.

- minProgressMeasure (optional, default value = 1.0): The value used as a threshold during measure-based evaluations of the activity’s completion status. XML Data Type: xs:decimal (Range 0.0000 to 1.0000, with a precision to at least 4 significant digits).
For a leaf <item> that references a SCO resource, the LMS shall use the minProgressMeasure value, if provided, to initialize the cmi.completion_threshold data model element (refer to the SCORM RTE book [2]). This value will be used by the SCO to determine completion when completedByMeasure is true.

- progressWeight (optional, default value = 1.0): This attribute indicates the weighting factor applied to the activity’s progress measure used during completion rollup of the parent activity [5]. XML Data Type: xs:decimal (Range 0.0000 to 1.0000, with a precision to at least 4 significant digits).


Elements:

- None


.. note::
    - ADL Note: The application of this element has been changed since SCORM 2004 3rd Edition. The previous usage of the <completionThreshold> element value – range 0.0000 to 1.0000 – has been deprecated and is not recommended for future usage. Previous usage of the <completionThreshold> value is still allowed (for backward compatibility), assuming the element does not also include any of the SCORM 2004 4th Edition attributes listed above.


Example: Code Illustration 3-16: <completionThreshold> Element

.. code-block:: xml

    <organization>
       <item identifier="ITEM3" 
            identifierref="RESOURCE3" isvisible="true">
          <title>Content 1</title>
          <adlcp:completionThreshold 
            completedByMeasure=“true” 
            minProgressMeasure=“0.75” />
       </item>
    </organization>


