.. _scorm_cam.resource_meta:

3.4.1.24. <metadata> Element(resource meta)
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The <metadata> element is metadata describing the resource [3]. 

It contains relevant information that describes the <resource> element as a whole. 

The <resource> element may represent a SCO or an asset. This depends on the value of the adlcp:scormTypeattribute. 

The <metadata> element is considered the root node for metadata describing the resource. This means that all metadata for the resource is defined as a child of the <metadata> element.
XML Namespace: http://www.imsglobal.org/xsd/imscp_v1p1
XML Namespace Prefix: imscp
XML Binding Representation: <metadata>
SCORM Requirements: SCORM places a requirement that all manifests shall adhere to the following multiplicity requirements for the <metadata> element:

.. list-table::
    *   - SCORM Content Packaging￼Application Profile
        - Manifest Multiplicity Requirements

    *   - Content Aggregation
        - 0 or 1

    *   - Resource
        - 0 or 1

Data Type: The <metadata> element is a parent element. Parent elements have no values associated with them. Parent elements act as “containers” for other elements/attributes. The<metadata>elementcontainsthefollowingelements/attributes:

Attributes:

- None Elements:
- {Metadata}: Refer to :ref:`Section 3.4.1.5 <scorm_cam.3.4.1.5>`: 
  {Metadata} for information on the inclusion of metadata.

.. note::
    ADL Note: This is different from the <metadata> element defined in :ref:`Section 3.4.1.2 <scorm_cam.3.4.1.2>`: <metadata> Element. The IMS Content Packaging Specification only permits the <schema> and <schemaversion> elements on the <metadata> element defined as a child of the <manifest> element.


Example: Code Illustration 3-22: Resource <metadata> Element

.. code-block:: xml

    <resources>
    <resource identifier="R_A2" type="webcontent" adlcp:scormType="sco"
                 href="sco1.html">
    <file href="sco1.html"/>
    <metadata>
             <adlcp:location>resources/resource1MD.xml</adlcp:location>
    </metadata>
       </resource>
    </resources>
