.. _scorm_cam.organization_meta:

3.4.1.20. <metadata> Element(organization meta)
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The <metadata> element is metadata describing the organization [3]. 

It contains relevant information that describes the <organization> element (i.e., Content Organization) as a whole. The <metadata> element is considered the root node for metadata describing the content organization. This means that all metadata for the content organization is defined as a child of the <metadata> element.
XML Namespace: http://www.imsglobal.org/xsd/imscp_v1p1
XML Namespace Prefix: imscp
XML Binding Representation: <metadata>
SCORM Requirements: SCORM places a requirement that all manifests shall adhere to the following multiplicity requirements for this <metadata> element:

.. list-table::

    *   - SCORM Content Packaging￼Application Profile
        - Manifest Multiplicity Requirements

    *   - Content Aggregation
        - 0 or 1

    *   - Resource
        - 0


For Resource Content Packages, this element shall not appear. The <organizations> element is required to be empty.
Data Type: The <metadata> element is a parent element. Parent elements have no values associated with them. Parent elements act as “containers” for other elements/attributes. The<metadata>elementcontainsthefollowingelements/attributes:

Attributes:
- None Elements:
- {Metadata} – Refer to Section 3.4.1.5: {Metadata} for information on the inclusion of metadata.

.. note::
    ADL Note: This is different from the <metadata> element defined in Section 3.4.1.2: <metadata> Element. The IMS Content Packaging Specification only permits the <schema> and <schemaversion> elements on the <metadata> element defined as a child of the <manifest> element.

Example: Code Illustration 3-19: Organization <metadata> Element

.. code-block:: xml

    <organization>
       <title>Introduction to SCORM</title>
       <item identifier="ITEM1" identifierref="RESOURCE1" isvisible="true">
          <title>SCORM Run-Time Environment Requirements</title>
       </item>
       <metadata>
          <adlcp:location>activities/activity1MD.xml</adlcp:location>
       </metadata>
    </organization>
