3.4. Building Content Packages
---------------------------------------

This section presents the requirements 
for building SCORM Content Packages. 

The section describes the XML binding 
for the IMS Content Packaging Specification as applied to SCORM. 

There are some specific rules that have guided the creation of this XML binding:

• The XML binding will adhere 
  to the XML 1.0 specification [6] of the W3C.

• The XML binding must maintain the definitional structure 
  of the IMS Content Packaging Information Model.

Some of the requirements are also drawn 
from other various specifications and standards. 

The majority of the requirements are inherited 
by the requirements defined in IMS Content Packaging Specification. 

Some other specifications and standards are implicitly inherited 
based on the nature of the XML and other Internet technologies.

This section also defines the requirements 
for each of the SCORM Content Package Application Profiles:

• Resource Content Package Application Profile: 

  A content package that only contains resources 
  (i.e., no organization). 

  This type of content package can be used 
  for bundling a set of learning resources 
  with no defined organization or content structure. 

  These learning resources may 
  or may not have relationships between each other.

• Content Aggregation Content Package Application Profile: 

  A content package for bundling a set of 
  learning resources and their intended static structure 
  and sequencing requirements 
  (i.e., 
  the manifest contains 1 or more organizations of the learning resources).

Refer to :ref:`Section 3.5 <scorm_cam.3.5>`: 
The SCORM Content Package Application Profiles 
for more information on SCORM Content Package Application Profiles.
