.. _jws.overview:

3.  JSON Web Signature (JWS) Overview
==========================================

JWS represents digitally signed or MACed content 
using JSON data structures and base64url encoding.  

A JWS represents these logical values:

.. glossary::

    JWS Header  
        JSON object containing the parameters 
        describing the cryptographic operations 
        and parameters employed.  

        The JWS Header members are the union of the members 
        of the :term:`JWS Protected Header` and 
        the :term:`JWS Unprotected Header`, as described below.

    JWS Payload  
        The sequence of octets to be secured -- 
        a.k.a., the message.  

        The payload can contain an arbitrary sequence of octets.

    JWS Signature  
        Digital signature or MAC over the JWS Protected Header
        and the JWS Payload.

        .. note::
            - デジタル署名/MAC

The JWS Header represents the combination of these values:

.. glossary::

    JWS Protected Header
        JSON object that contains the :term:`JWS Header Parameters` 
        that are integrity protected by the :term:`JWS Signature`
        digital signature or MAC operation.

    JWS Unprotected Header  
        JSON object that contains the :term:`JWS Header Parameters` 
        that are not integrity protected.

This document defines two serializations for JWS objects: 
a compact, URL-safe serialization called the :term:`JWS Compact Serialization` 
and a JSON serialization called the :term:`JWS JSON Serialization`.  

In both serializations, 
the :term:`JWS Protected Header`, :term:`JWS Payload`, 
and :term:`JWS Signature` are :term:`base64url` encoded for transmission, 
since JSON lacks a way to directly represent octet sequences.

In the JWS Compact Serialization, 
no JWS Unprotected Header is used.

In this case, 
the JWS Header and the JWS Protected Header are the same.

In the JWS Compact Serialization, 
a JWS object is represented as the combination of these three string values,

      BASE64URL(UTF8(JWS Protected Header)),

      BASE64URL(JWS Payload), and

      BASE64URL(JWS Signature),

concatenated in that order, with the three strings being separated by
two period ('.') characters.

In the JWS JSON Serialization, 
one or both of the JWS Protected Header 
and JWS Unprotected Header MUST be present.  

In this case, 
the members of the JWS Header are the combination of the members 
of the JWS Protected Header and the JWS Unprotected Header values 
that are present.

In the JWS JSON Serialization, 
a JWS object is represented as the combination of these four values,

      BASE64URL(UTF8(JWS Protected Header)),

      JWS Unprotected Header,

      BASE64URL(JWS Payload), and

      BASE64URL(JWS Signature),

with the three base64url encoding result strings 
and the JWS Unprotected Header value being represented as members 
within a JSON object.  

The inclusion of some of these values is OPTIONAL.  
The JWS JSON Serialization can also represent multiple signature 
and/or MAC values, rather than just one.  

See :ref:`Section 7.2` for more information
about the :term:`JWS JSON Serialization`.

(draft20)
