.. _jws.typ:

4.1.8.  "typ" (Type) Header Parameter
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

The "typ" (type) Header Parameter is used to declare the MIME Media
Type [IANA.MediaTypes] of this complete JWS object in contexts where
this is useful to the application.  This parameter has no effect upon
the JWS processing.  Use of this Header Parameter is OPTIONAL.

Per [RFC2045], all media type values, subtype values, and parameter
names are case-insensitive.  However, parameter values are case-
sensitive unless otherwise specified for the specific parameter.

To keep messages compact in common situations, it is RECOMMENDED that
senders omit an "application/" prefix of a media type value in a
"typ" Header Parameter when no other '/' appears in the media type
value.  A recipient using the media type value MUST treat it as if
"application/" were prepended to any "typ" value not containing a
'/'.  For instance, a "typ" value of "example" SHOULD be used to
represent the "application/example" media type; whereas, the media
type "application/example;part="1/2"" cannot be shortened to
"example;part="1/2"".

The "typ" value "JOSE" can be used by applications to indicate that
this object is a JWS or JWE using the JWS Compact Serialization or
the JWE Compact Serialization.  The "typ" value "JOSE+JSON" can be
used by applications to indicate that this object is a JWS or JWE
using the JWS JSON Serialization or the JWE JSON Serialization.
Other type values can also be used by applications.

(draft21)
