.. _jws.crit:

4.1.11.  "crit" (Critical) Header Parameter
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

The "crit" (critical) Header Parameter indicates that extensions to
the initial RFC versions of [[ this specification ]] and [JWA] are
being used that MUST be understood and processed.  Its value is an
array listing the Header Parameter names present in the JWS Header
that use those extensions.  If any of the listed extension Header
Parameters are not understood and supported by the receiver, it MUST
reject the JWS.  Senders must not include Header Parameter names
defined by the initial RFC versions of [[ this specification ]] or
[JWA] for use with JWS, duplicate names, or names that do not occur
as Header Parameter names within the JWS Header in the "crit" list.
Senders MUST not use the empty list "[]" as the "crit" value.
Recipients MAY reject the JWS if the critical list contains any
Header Parameter names defined by the initial RFC versions of [[ this
specification ]] or [JWA] for use with JWS, or any other constraints
on its use are violated.  This Header Parameter MUST be integrity
protected, and therefore MUST occur only within the JWS Protected
Header, when used.  Use of this Header Parameter is OPTIONAL.  This
Header Parameter MUST be understood and processed by implementations.

An example use, along with a hypothetical "exp" (expiration-time)
field is:

.. code-block:: javascript

     {"alg":"ES256",
      "crit":["exp"],
      "exp":1363284000
     }

(draft27)
