10.1.  JSON Web Token Claims Registry
---------------------------------------

This specification establishes the IANA JSON Web Token Claims
registry for JWT Claim Names.  The registry records the Claim Name
and a reference to the specification that defines it.  This
specification registers the Claim Names defined in Section 4.1.

Values are registered on a Specification Required [RFC5226] basis
after a two-week review period on the [TBD]@ietf.org mailing list, on
the advice of one or more Designated Experts.  However, to allow for
the allocation of values prior to publication, the Designated
Expert(s) may approve registration once they are satisfied that such
a specification will be published.

Registration requests must be sent to the [TBD]@ietf.org mailing list
for review and comment, with an appropriate subject (e.g., "Request
for access token type: example"). [[ Note to the RFC Editor: The name
of the mailing list should be determined in consultation with the
IESG and IANA.  Suggested name: jwt-reg-review. ]]

Within the review period, the Designated Expert(s) will either
approve or deny the registration request, communicating this decision
to the review list and IANA.  Denials should include an explanation
and, if applicable, suggestions as to how to make the request
successful.  Registration requests that are undetermined for a period
longer than 21 days can be brought to the IESG's attention (using the
iesg@iesg.org mailing list) for resolution.

Criteria that should be applied by the Designated Expert(s) includes
determining whether the proposed registration duplicates existing
functionality, determining whether it is likely to be of general
applicability or whether it is useful only for a single application,
and whether the registration makes sense.

IANA must only accept registry updates from the Designated Expert(s)
and should direct all requests for registration to the review mailing
list.

It is suggested that multiple Designated Experts be appointed who are
able to represent the perspectives of different applications using
this specification, in order to enable broadly-informed review of
registration decisions.  In cases where a registration decision could
be perceived as creating a conflict of interest for a particular
Expert, that Expert should defer to the judgment of the other
Expert(s).

(draft30)
