3.  JSON Web Token (JWT) Overview
============================================

JWTs represent a set of claims as a JSON object 
that is base64url encoded and digitally signed and/or encrypted. 
This object is the JWT Claims Object. 
As per RFC 4627 [RFC4627] Section 2.2, 
the JSON object consists of zero or more name/value pairs (or members), 
where the names are strings and the values are arbitrary JSON values. 
These members are the claims represented by the JWT.

The member names within the :term:`JWT Claims Object` are referred to as :term:`Claim Names`. 
These names MUST be **unique**. 
The corresponding values are referred to as :term:`Claim Values`.

The bytes of the UTF-8 representation of the :term:`JWT Claims Object` are signed 
in the manner described in JSON Web Signature (JWS) [:term:`JWS`] 
and/or encrypted in the manner described in JSON Web Encryption (JWE) [:term:`JWE`].

The contents of the :term:`JWT Header` describe the cryptographic operations applied to the JWT Claims Object. 
If the JWT Header is a :term:`JWS Header`, 
the claims are signed. 
If the JWT Header is a :term:`JWE Header`, the claims are encrypted.

A JWT is represented as the concatenation of the :term:`Encoded JWT Header`, the JWT Second Part, 
and the JWT Third Part, in that order, with the parts being separated by **period** ('.') characters. 
When signed, 
the three parts of the JWT are the three parts of a JWS used to represent the JWT. 
When encrypted, the three parts of the JWT are the three parts of a JWE used to represent the JWT.

(v.06)
