8.  Implementation Requirements
=================================================

This section defines which algorithms and features of this
specification are mandatory to implement.  

Applications using this specification can impose additional requirements 
upon implementations that they use.  

For instance, 
an application might require support for encrypted JWTs and Nested JWTs; 
another might require support for signing JWTs with ECDSA 
using the P-256 curve and the SHA-256 hash algorithm ("ES256").


Of the signature and MAC algorithms specified in JSON Web Algorithms
(JWA) [JWA], 
only HMAC SHA-256 ("HS256") and "none" MUST be implemented 
by conforming JWT implementations.  

It is RECOMMENDED that implementations also support RSASSA-PKCS1-V1_5 
with the SHA-256 hash algorithm ("RS256") 
and ECDSA using the P-256 curve and the SHA-256 hash algorithm ("ES256").  

Support for other algorithms and key sizes is OPTIONAL.


Support for encrypted JWTs is OPTIONAL.  
If an implementation provides encryption capabilities, 
of the encryption algorithms specified in [JWA], 
only RSAES-PKCS1-V1_5 with 2048 bit keys ("RSA1_5"), 
AES Key Wrap with 128 and 256 bit keys ("A128KW" and "A256KW"), 
and the composite authenticated encryption algorithm 
using AES CBC and HMAC SHA-2 ("A128CBC-HS256" and "A256CBC-HS512") MUST be
implemented by conforming implementations.  

It is RECOMMENDED that
implementations also support using ECDH-ES to agree upon a key used
to wrap the Content Encryption Key 
("ECDH-ES+A128KW" and "ECDH-ES+A256KW") 
and AES in Galois/Counter Mode (GCM) with 128 bit and 256 bit keys 
("A128GCM" and "A256GCM").  

Support for other algorithms and key sizes is OPTIONAL.

Support for Nested JWTs is OPTIONAL.

(draft21)
